docs/advertising/index.rst, before:

Advertising
===========

Advertising is the single largest source of funding for Read the Docs.
It allows us to:

.. Updated: June 2018

- Serve over **35 million pages** of documentation per month
- Serve over **40 TB** of documentation per month
- Host over **80,000 open source projects** and support over **100,000 users**
- Pay a :doc:`small team </team>` of dedicated full-time staff

Many advertising models involve tracking users around the internet,
selling their data, and privacy intrusion in general.
Instead of doing that, we built an :doc:`Ethical Advertising <ethical-advertising>` model
that respects user privacy.

We recognize that advertising is not for everyone.
You may :ref:`opt out of paid advertising <advertising/ethical-advertising:Opting Out>`
-- you will still see :ref:`community ads <advertising/ethical-advertising:Community Ads>` --
or you can go ad-free by `becoming a Gold Member`_ or a `Supporter`_ of Read the Docs.

.. _becoming a Gold Member: https://readthedocs.org/accounts/gold/
.. _Supporter: https://readthedocs.org/sustainability/#donations

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Advertising at Read the Docs

    ethical-advertising
    advertising-details
    ad-blocking

Commit message:

Add meta descriptions to top documentation

docs/advertising/index.rst, after:

Advertising
===========

.. meta::
   :description: Read the Docs is a large open source project funded by ethical advertising which respects user privacy and doesn't track people.


Advertising is the single largest source of funding for Read the Docs.
It allows us to:

.. Updated: June 2018

- Serve over **35 million pages** of documentation per month
- Serve over **40 TB** of documentation per month
- Host over **80,000 open source projects** and support over **100,000 users**
- Pay a :doc:`small team </team>` of dedicated full-time staff

Many advertising models involve tracking users around the internet,
selling their data, and privacy intrusion in general.
Instead of doing that, we built an :doc:`Ethical Advertising <ethical-advertising>` model
that respects user privacy.

We recognize that advertising is not for everyone.
You may :ref:`opt out of paid advertising <advertising/ethical-advertising:Opting Out>`
-- you will still see :ref:`community ads <advertising/ethical-advertising:Community Ads>` --
or you can go ad-free by `becoming a Gold Member`_ or a `Supporter`_ of Read the Docs.

.. _becoming a Gold Member: https://readthedocs.org/accounts/gold/
.. _Supporter: https://readthedocs.org/sustainability/#donations

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Advertising at Read the Docs

    ethical-advertising
    advertising-details
    ad-blocking
