Future builder
==============

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This document is a continuation of Santos' work about "`Explicit Builders`_".
It builds on top of that document some extra features and makes some decisions about the final goal,
proposing a clear direction to move forward with intermediate steps keeping backward and forward compatibility.

.. _Explicit Builders: https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/8103/

.. note::

   A lot of things have changed since this document was written.
   We have had multiple discussions where we already took some decisions and discarded some of the ideas/details proposed here.
   The document was merged as-is without a cleaned up and there could be some inconsistencies.
   Note that ``build.jobs`` and ``build.commands`` are already implemented *without defining a contract* yet,
   and with small differences from the idea described here.

   Please, refer to the following links to read more about all the discussions we already had:

    - Public discussions:

      - https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/9062
      - https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/1083
      - https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/9063
      - https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/9088

    - Private discussions:

      - https://github.com/readthedocs/meta/discussions/9
      - https://github.com/readthedocs/meta/discussions/14
      - https://github.com/readthedocs/meta/discussions/17



Goals
-----

* Keep the current builder working as-is
* Keep backward and forward (with intermediate steps) compatibility
* Define a clear support for newbie, intermediate and advanced users
* Allow users to override a command, run pre/post hook commands or define all commands by themselves
* Remove the Read the Docs requirement of having access to the build process
* Translate our current magic at build time to a defined contract with the user
* Provide a way to add a command argument without implementing it as a config file (e.g. ``fail_on_warning``)
* Define a path forward towards supporting other tools
* Re-write all ``readthedocs-sphinx-ext`` features to post-processsing HTML features
* Reduce complexity maintained by Read the Docs' core team
* Make Read the Docs responsible for Sphinx support and delegate other tools to the community
* Eventually support upload pre-build docs
* Allow us to add a feature with a defined contract without worry about breaking old builds
* Introduce ``build.builder: 2`` config (does not install pre-defined packages) for these new features
* Motivate users to migrate to ``v2`` to finally deprecate this magic by educating users


Steps ran by the builder
------------------------

Read the Docs currently controls all the build process.
Users are only allowed to modify very limited behavior by using a ``.readthedocs.yaml`` file.
This drove us to implement features like ``sphinx.fail_on_warning``, ``submodules``, among others,
at a high implementation and maintenance cost to the core team.
Besides, this hasn't been enough for more advanced users that require more control over these commands.

This document proposes to clearly define the steps the builder ran and allow users to override them
depending on their needings:

- Newbie user / simple platform usage: Read the Docs controls all the commands (current builder)
- Intermediate user: ability to override one or more commands plus running pre/post hooks
- Advanced user: controls *all the commands* executed by the builder

The steps identified so far are:

#. Checkout
#. Expose project data via environment variables (\*)
#. Create environment (virtualenv / conda)
#. Install dependencies
#. Build documentation
#. Generate defined contract (``metadata.yaml``)
#. Post-process HTML (\*)
#. Upload to storage (\*)

Steps marked with *(\*)* are managed by Read the Docs and can't be overwritten.


Defined contract
----------------

Projects building on Read the Docs must provide a ``metadata.yaml`` file after running their last command.
This file contains all the data required by Read the Docs to be able to add its integrations.
If this file is not provided or malformed, Read the Docs will fail the build and stop the process
communicating to the user that there was a problem with the ``metadata.yaml`` and we require them to fix the problem.

.. note::

   There is no restriction about how this file is generated
   (e.g. generated with Python, Bash, statically uploaded to the repository, etc)
   Read the Docs does not have control over it and it's only responsible for generating it when building with Sphinx.


The following is an example of a ``metadata.yaml`` that is generated by Read the Docs when building Sphinx documentation:

.. code:: yaml

   # metadata.yaml
   version: 1
   tool:
     name: sphinx
     version: 3.5.1
     builder: html
   readthedocs:
     html_output: ./_build/html/
     pdf_output: ./_build/pdf/myproject.pdf
     epub_output: ./_build/pdf/myproject.epub
     search:
       enabled: true
       css_identifier: #search-form > input[name="q"]
     analytics: false
     flyout: false
     canonical: docs.myproject.com
     language: en

.. warning::

   The ``metadata.yaml`` contract is not defined yet.
   This is just an example of what we could expect from it to be able to add our integrations.


Config file
-----------

As we mentioned, we want all users to use the same config file and have a clear way to override commands as they need.
This will be done by using the current ``.readthedocs.yaml`` file that we already have by adding two new keys:
``build.jobs`` and ``build.commands``.

If neither ``build.jobs`` or ``build.commands`` are present in the config file,
Read the Docs will execute the builder we currently support without modification,
keeping compatibility with all projects already building successfully.

When users make usage of ``jobs:`` or ``commands:`` keys we are not responsible for them in case they fail.
In these cases, we only check for a ``metadata.yaml`` file and run our code to add the integrations.


``build.jobs``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It allows users to execute one or multiple pre/post hooks and/or overwrite one or multiple commands.
These are some examples where this is useful:

- User wants to pass an extra argument to ``sphinx-build``
- Project requires to execute a command *before* building
- User has a personal/private PyPI URL
- Install project with `pip install -e` (see https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/6243)
- Disable git shallow clone (see https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/5989)
- Call `pip install` with `--constraint` (see https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/7258)
- Do something _before_ install (see https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/6662)
- Use a conda lock file to create the environment (see https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues/7772)
- Run a check after the build is done (e.g. ``sphinx-build -W -b linkcheck . _build/html``)
- Create virtualenv with ``--system-site-packages``
- etc

.. code:: yaml

   # .readthedocs.yaml
   build:
     builder: 2
     jobs:
       pre_checkout:
       checkout: git clone --branch main https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org
       post_checkout:
       pre_create_environment:
       create_environment: python -m virtualenv venv
       post_create_environment:
       pre_install:
       install: pip install -r requirements.txt
       post_install:
       pre_build:
       build:
         html: sphinx-build -T -j auto -E -b html -d _build/doctrees -D language=en . _build/html
         pdf: latexmk -r latexmkrc -pdf -f -dvi- -ps- -jobname=test-builds -interaction=nonstopmode
         epub: sphinx -T -j auto -b epub -d _build/doctrees -D language=en . _build/epub
       post_build:
       pre_metadata:
       metadata: ./metadata_sphinx.py
       post_medatada:


.. note::

   *All these commands* are executed passing all the exposed environment variables.

If the user only provides a subset of these jobs, we ran our default commands if the user does not provide them
(see :ref:`design/future-builder:Steps ran by the builder`).
For example, the following YAML is enough when the project requires running Doxygen as a pre-build step:

.. code:: yaml

   # .readthedocs.yaml
   build:
     builder: 2
     jobs:
       # https://breathe.readthedocs.io/en/latest/readthedocs.html#generating-doxygen-xml-files
       pre_build: cd ../doxygen; doxygen


``build.commands``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It allows users to have full control over the commands executed in the build process.
These are some examples where this is useful:

- project with a custom build process that does map ours
- specific requirements that we can't/want to cover as a general rule
- build documentation with a different tool than Sphinx


.. code:: yaml

   # .readthedocs.yaml
   build:
     builder: 2
     commands:
       - git clone --branch main https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org
       - pip install -r requirements.txt
       - sphinx-build -T -j auto -E -b html -d _build/doctrees -D language=en . _build/html
       - ./metadata.py


Intermediate steps for rollout
------------------------------

#. Remove all the exposed data in the ``conf.py.tmpl`` file and move it to ``metadata.yaml``
#. Define structure required for ``metadata.yaml`` as contract
#. Define the environment variables required (e.g. some from ``html_context``) and execute all commands with them
#. Build documentation using this contract
#. Leave ``readthedocs-sphinx-ext`` as the only package installed and extension install in ``conf.py.tmpl``
#. Add ``build.builder: 2`` config without any *magic*
#. Build everything needed to support ``build.jobs`` and ``build.commands`` keys
#. Write guides about how to use the new keys
#. Re-write ``readthedocs-sphinx-ext`` features to post-process HTML features


Final notes
-----------

- The migration path from ``v1`` to ``v2`` will require users to explicitly specify their requirements
  (we don't install pre-defined packages anymore)
- We probably not want to support ``build.jobs`` on ``v1`` to reduce core team's time maintaining that code
  without the ability to update it due to projects randomly breaking.
- We would be able to start building documentation using new tools without having to *integrate them*.
- Building on Read the Docs with a new tool will require:
  - the user to execute a different set of commands by overriding the defaults.
  - the project/build/user to expose a ``metadata.yaml`` with the contract that Read the Docs expects.
  - none, some or all the integrations will be added to the HTML output (these have to be implemented at Read the Docs core)
- We are not responsible for extra formats (e.g. PDF, ePub, etc) on other tools.
- Focus on support Sphinx with nice integrations made in a tool-agnostic way that can be re-used.
- Removing the manipulation of ``conf.py.tmpl`` does not require us to implement the same manipulation
  for projects using the new potential feature ``sphinx.yaml`` file.
