docs/intro/getting-started-with-mkdocs.rst, before:

Getting Started with MkDocs
===========================

MkDocs is a documentation generator that focuses on speed and simplicity.
It has many great features including:

* Preview your documentation as you write it
* Easy customization with themes and extensions
* Writing documentation with Markdown

.. note::

    MkDocs is a great choice for building technical documentation.
    However, Read the Docs also supports :doc:`Sphinx </intro/getting-started-with-sphinx>`,
    another tool for writing and building documentation.


Quick start
-----------

Assuming you have Python already, `install MkDocs`_:

.. prompt:: bash $

    pip install mkdocs

Setup your MkDocs project:

.. prompt:: bash $

    mkdocs new .

This command creates ``mkdocs.yml`` which holds your MkDocs configuration,
and ``docs/index.md`` which is the Markdown file
that is the entry point for your documentation.

You can edit this ``index.md`` file to add more details about your project
and then you can build your documentation:

.. prompt:: bash $

    mkdocs serve

This command builds your Markdown files into HTML
and starts a development server to browse your documentation.
Open up http://127.0.0.1:8000/ in your web browser to see your documentation.
You can make changes to your Markdown files and your docs will automatically rebuild.

.. figure:: ../_static/images/first-steps/mkdocs-hello-world.png
    :align: right
    :figwidth: 300px
    :target: ../_static/images/first-steps/mkdocs-hello-world.png

    Your MkDocs project is built

Once you have your documentation in a public repository such as GitHub, Bitbucket, or GitLab,
you can start using Read the Docs by :doc:`importing your docs </intro/import-guide>`.

.. _install MkDocs: https://www.mkdocs.org/#installation


External resources
------------------

Here are some external resources to help you learn more about MkDocs.

* `MkDocs documentation`_
* `Markdown syntax guide`_
* `Writing your docs with MkDocs`_

.. _MkDocs documentation: https://www.mkdocs.org/
.. _Markdown syntax guide: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax
.. _Writing your docs with MkDocs: https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/writing-your-docs/

Commit message:

Add meta descriptions to top documentation

docs/intro/getting-started-with-mkdocs.rst, after:

Getting Started with MkDocs
===========================

.. meta::
   :description: Get started writing technical documentation with MkDocs and publishing to Read the Docs.


MkDocs is a documentation generator that focuses on speed and simplicity.
It has many great features including:

* Preview your documentation as you write it
* Easy customization with themes and extensions
* Writing documentation with Markdown

.. note::

    MkDocs is a great choice for building technical documentation.
    However, Read the Docs also supports :doc:`Sphinx </intro/getting-started-with-sphinx>`,
    another tool for writing and building documentation.


Quick start
-----------

Assuming you have Python already, `install MkDocs`_:

.. prompt:: bash $

    pip install mkdocs

Setup your MkDocs project:

.. prompt:: bash $

    mkdocs new .

This command creates ``mkdocs.yml`` which holds your MkDocs configuration,
and ``docs/index.md`` which is the Markdown file
that is the entry point for your documentation.

You can edit this ``index.md`` file to add more details about your project
and then you can build your documentation:

.. prompt:: bash $

    mkdocs serve

This command builds your Markdown files into HTML
and starts a development server to browse your documentation.
Open up http://127.0.0.1:8000/ in your web browser to see your documentation.
You can make changes to your Markdown files and your docs will automatically rebuild.

.. figure:: ../_static/images/first-steps/mkdocs-hello-world.png
    :align: right
    :figwidth: 300px
    :target: ../_static/images/first-steps/mkdocs-hello-world.png

    Your MkDocs project is built

Once you have your documentation in a public repository such as GitHub, Bitbucket, or GitLab,
you can start using Read the Docs by :doc:`importing your docs </intro/import-guide>`.

.. _install MkDocs: https://www.mkdocs.org/#installation


External resources
------------------

Here are some external resources to help you learn more about MkDocs.

* `MkDocs documentation`_
* `Markdown syntax guide`_
* `Writing your docs with MkDocs`_

.. _MkDocs documentation: https://www.mkdocs.org/
.. _Markdown syntax guide: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax
.. _Writing your docs with MkDocs: https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/writing-your-docs/
