Development Standards
=====================

These are build standards that are adhered to by the core development team while
developing Read the Docs and related services. If you are a new contributor to
Read the Docs, it might a be a good idea to follow these guidelines as well. The
:doc:`standard installation instructions <install>` do cover what it takes to
get started with a local installation of Read the Docs and can be used for local
development by non-core team.

Core team standards
-------------------

Core team members expect to have a development environment that closely
approximates our production environment, in order to spot bugs and logical
inconsistencies before they make their way to production.

Celery runs as a separate process
    Celery needs to be run as a separate process, and core team will not use
    in-process task execution via Celery's ``CELERY_ALWAYS_EAGER`` setting. The
    ``CELERY_ALWAYS_EAGER`` setting doesn't work correctly, and masks bugs that
    introduce task execution race conditions.

    Debugging is different when running as a separate process, see `Debugging
    Celery`_ for more information.

Celery runs multiple processes
    We run celery with multiple worker processes to discover race conditions
    between tasks.

Docker for builds
    Docker is used for a build backend instead of the local host build backend.
    There are a number of differences between the two execution methods in how
    processes are executed, what is installed, and what can potentially leak
    through and mask bugs -- for example, local SSH agent allowing code check
    not normally possible.

Setting ``USE_SUBDOMAIN = True``
    There are a number of resolution bugs and cross-domain behavior that can
    only be caught by using this setting. It requires use of a catch all public
    domain, so we can resolve all subdomains to ``localhost``. For example, here
    are some related settings that affect project URLs::

        PRODUCTION_DOMAIN = 'localhost:8000'
        PUBLIC_DOMAIN = 'dev.readthedocs.io:8001'
        USE_SUBDOMAIN = True

Postgres as a database (optional for now)
    It is recommended that Postgres be used as the default database whenever
    possible, as SQLite has issues with our Django version and we use Postgres
    in production.  Differences between Postgres and SQLite should be masked for
    the most part however, as Django does abstract database procedures, and we
    don't do any Postgres-specific operations yet.

    Because we run Postgres as our production database, you should be familiar
    with maintenance of a Postgres instance however. You can run Postgres in a
    Docker container on Linux or use the Postgres application on MacOS, both are
    easy to get started with.

Celery is isolated from database
    Currently, it's really easy to forget that the Celery workers on our build
    servers do not have database access and need to be written to use API access
    instead. We don't yet have a pattern for this, but we should find a way to
    put up a similar barrier in development, so that logic errors aren't
    uncovered after we release.

Debugging Celery
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have been executing Celery tasks using ``CELERY_ALWAYS_EAGER``, you will
have to alter how your are debugging your task processes when switching to
running multiple workers on a dedicated Celery process.

In order to step into the worker process, you can't use ``pdb`` or ``ipdb``, but
you can use ``celery.contrib.rdb``::

    from celery.contrib import rdb; rdb.set_trace()

When the breakpoint is hit, the Celery worker will pause on the breakpoint and
will alert you on STDOUT of a port to connect to. You can then use ``telnet`` or
``netcat`` to connect to the debug process port::

    nc 127.0.0.1 6900

The ``rdb`` debugger is similar to ``pdb``, there is no ``ipdb`` for remote
debugging currently.

Using Supervisord
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An example of how to run all the services required is included in
``contrib/supervisord.conf``. Debugging is harder with this method, so it's not
required for development, but you can also use this configuration to understand
what commands to execute.

To use supervisor to run local processes::

    cd contrib/
    supervisord

Debugging into the detached processes is possible with ``rdb``, and you can see
what is happening in the foreground of the process with ``supervisorctl fg
<process>``. It might be easier to stop the process running in supervisor and
run the command manually if you need to do heavy debugging.
