docs/design/pr-builder.rst, before:

Design of Pull Request Builder
==============================

Background
----------

This will focus on automatically building documentation for Pull Requests on Read the Docs projects.
This is one of the most requested feature of Read the Docs.
This document will serve as a design document for discussing how to implement this features.

Scope
-----

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1
   :backlinks: none
   
- Receiving ``pull_request`` webhook event from Github
- Fetching data from pull requests.
- Making Pull Requests work like temporary ``Version``
- Excluding PR Versions from Elasticsearch Indexing
- Creating PR Versions when a pull request is opened and Triggering a build
- Triggering Builds on new commits on a PR
- Status reporting to Github
- Storing PR Version build Data
- Excluding PR Versions from Search Engines
- Serving PR Docs
- Updating the Footer API
- Adding Warning Banner to Docs

Fetching Data from Pull Requests
--------------------------------

We already get Pull request events from Github webhooks.
We can utilize that to fetch data from pull requests.
when a ``pull_request`` event is triggered we can fetch the data of that pull request.
We can fetch the pull request by doing something similar to travis-ci.
ie: ``git fetch origin +refs/pull/<pr_number>/merge:``

Modeling Pull Requests as a Type of Version
-------------------------------------------

Pull requests can be Treated as a Type of Temporary ``Version``.
We might consider adding a ``VERSION_TYPES`` to the ``Version`` model.

- If we go with ``VERSION_TYPES`` we can add something like ``pull_request`` alongside Tag and Branch.

We also have to update the current ``Version`` model ``QuerySet`` to exclude the PR versions.
We have to add ``QuerySet`` for PR versions also.

Excluding PR Versions from Elasticsearch Indexing
-------------------------------------------------

We should exclude to PR Versions from being Indexed to Elasticsearch.
We need to update the queryset to exclude PR Versions.

Creating Versions for Pull Requests
-----------------------------------

If the Github webhook event is ``pull_request`` and action is ``opened``,
this means a pull request was opened in the projects repository.
We can create a ``Version`` from the Payload data and trigger a initial build for the version.
A version will be created whenever RTD receives an event like this.

Triggering Build for New Commits in a Pull Request
--------------------------------------------------

We might want to trigger a new build for the PR version if there is a new commit on the PR.
If the Github webhook event is ``pull_request`` and action is ``synchronize``,
this means a new commit was added to the pull request.

Status Reporting to Github
--------------------------

We could send build status reports to Github. We could send if the build was Successful or Failed.
We can also send the build URL. By this we could show if the build passed or failed on Github something like travis-ci does.

As we already have the ``repo:status`` scope on our OAuth App,
we can send the status report to Github using the Github Status API.

Sending the status report would be something like this:

.. http:post:: /repos/:owner/:repo/statuses/:sha

.. code:: json

   {
       "state": "success",
       "target_url": "<pr_build_url>",
       "description": "The build succeeded!",
       "context": "continuous-documentation/read-the-docs"
   }

Storing Pull Request Docs
-------------------------

We need to think about how and where to store data after a PR Version build is finished.
We can store the data in a blob storage.

Excluding PR Versions from Search Engines
-----------------------------------------

We should Exclude the PR Versions from Search Engines,
because it might cause problems for RTD users.
As users might land to a pull request doc but not the original Project Docs.
This will cause confusion for the users.

Serving PR Docs
---------------

We need to think about how we want to serve the PR Docs.

- We could serve the PR Docs from another Domain.
- We could serve the PR Docs using ``<pr_number>`` namespace on the same Domain.

  - Using ``pr-<pr_number>`` as the version slug ``https://<project_slug>.readthedocs.io/<language_code>/pr-<pr_number>/``
  - Using ``pr`` subdomain ``https://pr.<project_slug>.readthedocs.io/<pr_number>/``


Updating the Footer API
-----------------------

We need to update the Footer API to reflect the changes.
We might want to have a way to show that if this is a PR Build on the Footer.

- For regular project docs we should remove the PR Versions from the version list of the Footer.

Adding Warning Banner to Docs
-----------------------------

We need to add a warning banner to the PR Version Docs to let the users know that this is a Draft/PR version.
We can use a sphinx extension that we will force to install on the PR Versions to add the warning banner.

Related Issues
--------------

- `Autobuild Docs for Pull Requests`_
- `Add travis-ci style pull request builder`_


.. _Autobuild Docs for Pull Requests: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/5684
.. _Add travis-ci style pull request builder: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/1340

Commit message:

Version manager added to PR Builder Design Doc

docs/design/pr-builder.rst, after:

Design of Pull Request Builder
==============================

Background
----------

This will focus on automatically building documentation for Pull Requests on Read the Docs projects.
This is one of the most requested feature of Read the Docs.
This document will serve as a design document for discussing how to implement this features.

Scope
-----

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1
   :backlinks: none
   
- Receiving ``pull_request`` webhook event from Github
- Fetching data from pull requests.
- Making Pull Requests work like temporary ``Version``
- Excluding PR Versions from Elasticsearch Indexing
- Creating PR Versions when a pull request is opened and Triggering a build
- Triggering Builds on new commits on a PR
- Status reporting to Github
- Storing PR Version build Data
- Excluding PR Versions from Search Engines
- Serving PR Docs
- Updating the Footer API
- Adding Warning Banner to Docs

Fetching Data from Pull Requests
--------------------------------

We already get Pull request events from Github webhooks.
We can utilize that to fetch data from pull requests.
when a ``pull_request`` event is triggered we can fetch the data of that pull request.
We can fetch the pull request by doing something similar to travis-ci.
ie: ``git fetch origin +refs/pull/<pr_number>/merge:``

Modeling Pull Requests as a Type of Version
-------------------------------------------

Pull requests can be Treated as a Type of Temporary ``Version``.
We might consider adding a ``VERSION_TYPES`` to the ``Version`` model.

- If we go with ``VERSION_TYPES`` we can add something like ``pull_request`` alongside Tag and Branch.

We should add ``Version`` Model Managers for PR Versions and Regular Versions.
The proposed names for PR Version Manager and Regular Version Manger are ``external`` and ``internal``.

We can then have ``Version.internal.all()`` to get all regular versions,
``Version.external.all()`` to get all PR versions.


Excluding PR Versions from Elasticsearch Indexing
-------------------------------------------------

We should exclude to PR Versions from being Indexed to Elasticsearch.
We need to update the queryset to exclude PR Versions.

Creating Versions for Pull Requests
-----------------------------------

If the Github webhook event is ``pull_request`` and action is ``opened``,
this means a pull request was opened in the projects repository.
We can create a ``Version`` from the Payload data and trigger a initial build for the version.
A version will be created whenever RTD receives an event like this.

Triggering Build for New Commits in a Pull Request
--------------------------------------------------

We might want to trigger a new build for the PR version if there is a new commit on the PR.
If the Github webhook event is ``pull_request`` and action is ``synchronize``,
this means a new commit was added to the pull request.

Status Reporting to Github
--------------------------

We could send build status reports to Github. We could send if the build was Successful or Failed.
We can also send the build URL. By this we could show if the build passed or failed on Github something like travis-ci does.

As we already have the ``repo:status`` scope on our OAuth App,
we can send the status report to Github using the Github Status API.

Sending the status report would be something like this:

.. http:post:: /repos/:owner/:repo/statuses/:sha

.. code:: json

   {
       "state": "success",
       "target_url": "<pr_build_url>",
       "description": "The build succeeded!",
       "context": "continuous-documentation/read-the-docs"
   }

Storing Pull Request Docs
-------------------------

We need to think about how and where to store data after a PR Version build is finished.
We can store the data in a blob storage.

Excluding PR Versions from Search Engines
-----------------------------------------

We should Exclude the PR Versions from Search Engines,
because it might cause problems for RTD users.
As users might land to a pull request doc but not the original Project Docs.
This will cause confusion for the users.

Serving PR Docs
---------------

We need to think about how we want to serve the PR Docs.

- We could serve the PR Docs from another Domain.
- We could serve the PR Docs using ``<pr_number>`` namespace on the same Domain.

  - Using ``pr-<pr_number>`` as the version slug ``https://<project_slug>.readthedocs.io/<language_code>/pr-<pr_number>/``
  - Using ``pr`` subdomain ``https://pr.<project_slug>.readthedocs.io/<pr_number>/``


Updating the Footer API
-----------------------

We need to update the Footer API to reflect the changes.
We might want to have a way to show that if this is a PR Build on the Footer.

- For regular project docs we should remove the PR Versions from the version list of the Footer.

Adding Warning Banner to Docs
-----------------------------

We need to add a warning banner to the PR Version Docs to let the users know that this is a Draft/PR version.
We can use a sphinx extension that we will force to install on the PR Versions to add the warning banner.

Related Issues
--------------

- `Autobuild Docs for Pull Requests`_
- `Add travis-ci style pull request builder`_


.. _Autobuild Docs for Pull Requests: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/5684
.. _Add travis-ci style pull request builder: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/1340
