Configuration File V2
=====================

Read the Docs supports configuring your documentation builds with a YAML file.
The :doc:`configuration file <index>` must be in the root directory of your project
and be named ``.readthedocs.yaml``.

All options are applied to the version containing this file.
Below is an example YAML file which shows the most common configuration options:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Sphinx

      .. code:: yaml

         # .readthedocs.yaml
         # Read the Docs configuration file
         # See https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config-file/v2.html for details

         # Required
         version: 2

         # Build documentation in the docs/ directory with Sphinx
         sphinx:
            configuration: docs/conf.py

         # Optionally build your docs in additional formats such as PDF
         formats:
            - pdf

         # Optionally set the version of Python and requirements required to build your docs
         python:
            version: "3.7"
            install:
            - requirements: docs/requirements.txt

   .. tab:: MkDocs

      .. code:: yaml

         # .readthedocs.yaml
         # Read the Docs configuration file
         # See https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config-file/v2.html for details

         # Required
         version: 2

         mkdocs:
           configuration: mkdocs.yml

         # Optionally set the version of Python and requirements required to build your docs
         python:
            version: "3.7"
            install:
            - requirements: docs/requirements.txt

Supported settings
------------------

Read the Docs validates every configuration file.
Any configuration option that isn't supported will make the build fail.
This is to avoid typos and provide feedback on invalid configurations.

.. warning::

   When using a v2 configuration file,
   the local settings from the web interface are ignored.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 3

version
~~~~~~~

:Required: ``true``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

.. warning::

   If you don't provide the version, :doc:`v1 <v1>` will be used.

formats
~~~~~~~

Formats of the documentation to be built.

:Type: ``list``
:Options: ``htmlzip``, ``pdf``, ``epub``
:Default: ``[]``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   # Default
   formats: []

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   # Build PDF & ePub
   formats:
     - epub
     - pdf

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to indicate all formats.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      version: 2

      # Build all formats
      formats: all

.. warning::

   ``pdf``, ``epub``, and ``htmlzip`` output is not supported when using MkDocs.

python
~~~~~~

Configuration of the Python environment to be used.

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   python:
     version: "3.7"
     install:
       - requirements: docs/requirements.txt
       - method: pip
         path: .
         extra_requirements:
           - docs
       - method: setuptools
         path: another/package
     system_packages: true

python.version
``````````````

The Python version (this depends on :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`).

:Type: ``string``
:Default: ``3``

.. note::

   Make sure to use quotes (``"``) to make it a string.
   We previously supported using numbers here,
   but that approach is deprecated.
.. warning::

   If you are using a :ref:`Conda <config-file/v2:conda>` environment to manage
   the build, this setting will not have any effect, as the Python version is managed by Conda.

python.install
``````````````

List of installation methods of packages and requirements.
You can have several of the following methods.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

Requirements file
'''''''''''''''''

Install packages from a requirements file.

The path to the requirements file, relative to the root of the project.

:Key: ``requirements``
:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   python:
     version: "3.7"
     install:
       - requirements: docs/requirements.txt
       - requirements: requirements.txt

.. warning::

  If you are using a :ref:`Conda <config-file/v2:conda>` environment to
  manage the build, this setting will not have any effect. Instead
  add the extra requirements to the ``environment`` file of Conda.

Packages
''''''''

Install the project using ``python setup.py install`` or ``pip install``.

The path to the package, relative to the root of the project.

:Key: ``path``
:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

The installation method.

:Key: ``method``
:Options: ``pip``, ``setuptools``
:Default: ``pip``

`Extra requirements`_ section to install in addition to the `package dependencies`_.

.. _Extra Requirements: https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide/dependency_management.html#optional-dependencies
.. _package dependencies: https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide/dependency_management.html#declaring-required-dependency

.. warning::

   You need to install your project with ``pip`` to use ``extra_requirements``.

:Key: ``extra_requirements``
:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   python:
     version: "3.7"
     install:
       - method: pip
         path: .
         extra_requirements:
           - docs
       - method: setuptools
         path: package

With the previous settings, Read the Docs will execute the next commands:

.. prompt:: bash $

   pip install .[docs]
   python package/setup.py install

python.system_packages
``````````````````````

Give the virtual environment access to the global site-packages directory.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

Depending on the :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`,
Read the Docs includes some libraries like scipy, numpy, etc.
That you can access to them by enabling this option.
See :doc:`/builds` for more details.

.. warning::

  If you are using a :ref:`Conda <config-file/v2:conda>` environment
  to manage the build, this setting will not have any effect, since
  the virtual environment creation is managed by Conda.

conda
~~~~~

Configuration for Conda support.

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   conda:
     environment: environment.yml

conda.environment
`````````````````

The path to the Conda environment file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

build
~~~~~

Configuration for the documentation build process.

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   build:
     image: latest
     apt_packages:
       - libclang
       - cmake

   python:
     version: "3.7"


build.image
```````````

The Docker image used for building the docs.

:Type: ``string``
:Options: ``stable``, ``latest``
:Default: ``latest``

Each image support different Python versions and has different packages installed,
as defined here:

* `stable <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs-docker-images/tree/releases/5.x>`_: :buildpyversions:`stable`
* `latest <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs-docker-images/tree/releases/6.x>`_: :buildpyversions:`latest`

build.apt_packages
``````````````````

List of `APT packages`_ to install.
Our build servers run Ubuntu 18.04, with the default set of package repositories installed.
We don't currently support PPA's or other custom repositories.

.. _APT packages: https://packages.ubuntu.com/

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   build:
     apt_packages:
       - libclang
       - cmake

.. note::

   When possible avoid installing Python packages using apt (``python3-numpy`` for example),
   :ref:`use pip or Conda instead <guides/reproducible-builds:pinning dependencies>`.

sphinx
~~~~~~

Configuration for Sphinx documentation
(this is the default documentation type).

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   sphinx:
     builder: html
     configuration: conf.py
     fail_on_warning: true

sphinx.builder
``````````````

The builder type for the Sphinx documentation.

:Type: ``string``
:Options: ``html``, ``dirhtml``, ``singlehtml``
:Default: ``html``

.. note::
   The ``htmldir`` builder option was renamed to ``dirhtml`` to use the same name as sphinx.
   Configurations using the old name will continue working.

sphinx.configuration
````````````````````

The path to the ``conf.py`` file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Default: ``null``

If the value is ``null``,
Read the Docs will try to find a ``conf.py`` file in your project.

sphinx.fail_on_warning
``````````````````````

Turn warnings into errors
(:option:`-W <sphinx:sphinx-build.-W>` and :option:`--keep-going <sphinx:sphinx-build.--keep-going>` options).
This means the build fails if there is a warning and exits with exit status 1.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

mkdocs
~~~~~~

Configuration for Mkdocs documentation.

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   mkdocs:
     configuration: mkdocs.yml
     fail_on_warning: false

mkdocs.configuration
````````````````````

The path to the ``mkdocs.yml`` file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Default: ``null``

If the value is ``null``,
Read the Docs will try to find a ``mkdocs.yml`` file in your project.

mkdocs.fail_on_warning
``````````````````````

`Turn warnings into errors <https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#strict>`__.
This means that the build stops at the first warning and exits with exit status 1.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

submodules
~~~~~~~~~~

VCS submodules configuration.

.. note::

   Only Git is supported at the moment.

.. warning::

   You can't use ``include`` and ``exclude`` settings for submodules at the same time.

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   submodules:
     include:
       - one
       - two
     recursive: true

submodules.include
``````````````````

List of submodules to be included.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to include all submodules.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      version: 2

      submodules:
        include: all

submodules.exclude
``````````````````

List of submodules to be excluded.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to exclude all submodules.
   This is the same as ``include: []``.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      version: 2

      submodules:
        exclude: all

submodules.recursive
````````````````````

Do a recursive clone of the submodules.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

.. note::

   This is ignored if there aren't submodules to clone.

search
~~~~~~

Settings for more control over :doc:`/server-side-search`.

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   search:
     ranking:
       api/v1/*: -1
       api/v2/*: 4
     ignore:
       - 404.html

search.ranking
``````````````

Set a custom search rank over pages matching a pattern.

:Type: ``map`` of patterns to ranks
:Default: ``{}``

Patterns are matched against the final html pages produced by the build
(you should try to match `index.html`, not `docs/index.rst`).
Patterns can include some special characters:

- ``*`` matches everything
- ``?`` matches any single character
- ``[seq]`` matches any character in ``seq``

The rank can be an integer number between -10 and 10 (inclusive).
Pages with a rank closer to -10 will appear further down the list of results,
and pages with a rank closer to 10 will appear higher in the list of results.
Note that 0 means *normal rank*, not *no rank*.

If you are looking to completely ignore a page,
check :ref:`config-file/v2:search.ignore`.

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   search:
     ranking:
       # Match a single file
       tutorial.html: 2

       # Match all files under the api/v1 directory
       api/v1/*: -5

       # Match all files that end with tutorial.html
       '*/tutorial.html': 3

.. note::

   The final rank will be the last pattern to match the page.

.. tip::

   Is better to decrease the rank of pages you want to deprecate,
   rather than increasing the rank of the other pages.

search.ignore
`````````````

Don't index files matching a pattern.
This is, you won't see search results from these files.

:Type: ``list`` of patterns
:Default: ``['search.html', 'search/index.html', '404.html', '404/index.html']``

Patterns are matched against the final html pages produced by the build
(you should try to match `index.html`, not `docs/index.rst`).
Patterns can include some special characters:

- ``*`` matches everything
- ``?`` matches any single character
- ``[seq]`` matches any character in ``seq``

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   search:
      ignore:
        # Ignore a single file
        - 404.html

        # Ignore all files under the search/ directory
        - search/*

        # Ignore all files that end with ref.html
        - '*/ref.html'

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

   search:
      ignore:
        # Custom files to ignore
        - file.html
        - api/v1/*

        # Defaults
        - search.html
        - search/index.html
        - 404.html
        - 404/index.html'

.. note::

   Since Read the Docs fallbacks to the original search engine when no results are found,
   you may still see search results from ignored pages.

Schema
------

You can see the complete schema
`here <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/blob/master/readthedocs/rtd_tests/fixtures/spec/v2/schema.yml>`_.

Migrating from v1
-----------------

Changes
~~~~~~~

- The version setting is required. See :ref:`config-file/v2:version`.
- The default value of the :ref:`config-file/v2:formats` setting has changed to ``[]``
  and it doesn't include the values from the web interface.
- The top setting ``requirements_file`` was moved to ``python.install``
  and we don't try to find a requirements file if the option isn't present.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:Requirements file`.
- The setting ``conda.file`` was renamed to ``conda.environment``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:conda.environment`.
- The ``build.image`` setting now only has two options: ``latest`` (default) and ``stable``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`.
- The settings ``python.setup_py_install`` and ``python.pip_install`` were replaced by ``python.install``.
  And now it accepts a path to the package.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:Packages`.
- The setting ``python.use_system_site_packages`` was renamed to ``python.system_packages``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:python.system_packages`.
- The build will fail if there are invalid keys (strict mode).

.. warning::

   Some values from the web interface are no longer respected,
   please see :ref:`config-file/v2:Migrating from the web interface` if you have settings there.

New settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- :ref:`config-file/v2:sphinx`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:mkdocs`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:submodules`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:python.install`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:search`

Migrating from the web interface
--------------------------------

This should be pretty straightforward,
just go to the :guilabel:`Admin` > :guilabel:`Advanced settings`,
and find their respective setting in :ref:`here <config-file/v2:Supported settings>`.

Not all settings in the web interface are per version, but are per project.
These settings aren't supported via the configuration file.

* ``Name``
* ``Repository URL``
* ``Repository type``
* ``Language``
* ``Programming language``
* ``Project homepage``
* ``Tags``
* ``Single version``
* ``Default branch``
* ``Default version``
* ``Show versions warning``
* ``Privacy level``
* ``Analytics code``
