docs/config-file/v2.rst, before:

Configuration File V2
=====================

Read the Docs supports configuring your documentation builds with a YAML file.
:doc:`The Read the Docs file <index>` must be in the root directory of your project.

Below is an example YAML file which may require some changes for your project's configuration:

.. code:: yaml

    # .readthedocs.yml
    # Read the Docs configuration file
    # See https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config-file/v2.html for details

    # Required
    version: 2

    # Build documentation in the docs/ directory with Sphinx
    sphinx:
      configuration: docs/conf.py

    # Build documentation with MkDocs
    #mkdocs:
    #  configuration: mkdocs.yml

    # Optionally build your docs in additional formats such as PDF and ePub
    formats: all

    # Optionally set the version of Python and requirements required to build your docs
    python:
      version: 3.7
      install:
        - requirements: docs/requirements.txt


Supported settings
------------------

.. note::

   The presence of any other key that isn't documented here will make the build to fail.
   This is to avoid typos and provide feedback on invalid configurations.

version
~~~~~~~

:Required: ``true``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

.. warning::

   If you don't provide the version, :doc:`v1 <v1>` will be used.

formats
~~~~~~~

Formats of the documentation to be built.

:Type: ``list``
:Options: ``htmlzip``, ``pdf``, ``epub``
:Default: ``[]``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   # Default
   formats: []

.. code-block:: yaml

   # Build PDF & ePub
   formats:
     - epub
     - pdf

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to indicate all formats.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      # Build all formats
      formats: all

.. note::

   PDF/epub/htmlzip output is not supported when using MkDocs  

python
~~~~~~

Configuration of the Python environment to be used.
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   python:
      version: 3.7
      install:
         - requirements: docs/requirements.txt
         - method: pip
           path: .
           extra_requirements:
               - docs
         - method: setuptools
           path: another/package
      system_packages: true

python.version
``````````````

The Python version (this depends on :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`).

:Type: ``number``
:Default: ``3``

python.install
``````````````

List of installation methods of packages and requirements.
You can have several of the following methods.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

Requirements file
'''''''''''''''''

Install packages from a requirements file.

The path to the requirements file, relative to the root of the project.

:Key: ``requirements``
:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   python:
      version: 3.7
      install:
         - requirements: docs/requirements.txt
         - requirements: requirements.txt

Packages
''''''''

Install the project using ``python setup.py install`` or ``pip install``.

The path to the package, relative to the root of the project.

:Key: ``path``
:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

The installation method.

:Key: ``method``
:Options: ``pip``, ``setuptools``
:Default: ``pip``

`Extra requirements`_ section to install in addition to the `package dependencies`_.

.. _Extra Requirements: https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#declaring-extras-optional-features-with-their-own-dependencies
.. _package dependencies: https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#declaring-dependencies

.. warning::

   You need to install your project with ``pip`` to use ``extra_requirements``.

:Key: ``extra_requirements``
:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   python:
      version: 3.7
      install:
         - method: pip
           path: .
           extra_requirements:
              - docs
         - method: setuptools
           path: package

With the previous settings, Read the Docs will execute the next commands:

.. prompt:: bash $

   pip install .[docs]
   python package/setup.py install

python.system_packages
``````````````````````

Give the virtual environment access to the global site-packages directory.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

Depending on the :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`,
Read the Docs includes some libraries like scipy, numpy, etc.
That you can access to them by enabling this option.
See :ref:`builds:The build environment` for more details.

conda
~~~~~

Configuration for Conda support.
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   conda:
     environment: environment.yml

conda.environment
`````````````````

The path to the Conda environment file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

build
~~~~~

Configuration for the documentation build process.
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   build:
     image: latest

   python:
     version: 3.7


build.image
```````````

The Docker image used for building the docs.

:Type: ``string``
:Options: ``stable``, ``latest``
:Default: ``latest``

Each image support different Python versions and has different packages installed,
as defined here:

* `stable <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs-docker-images/tree/releases/4.x>`_: :buildpyversions:`stable`
* `latest <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs-docker-images/tree/releases/5.x>`_: :buildpyversions:`latest`

sphinx
~~~~~~

Configuration for Sphinx documentation
(this is the default documentation type).
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   sphinx:
     builder: html
     configuration: conf.py
     fail_on_warning: true

sphinx.builder
``````````````

The builder type for the Sphinx documentation.

:Type: ``string``
:Options: ``html``, ``htmldir``, ``singlehtml``
:Default: ``html``

sphinx.configuration
````````````````````

The path to the ``conf.py`` file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Default: ``null``

If the value is ``null``,
Read the Docs will try to find a ``conf.py`` file in your project.

sphinx.fail_on_warning
``````````````````````

`Turn warnings into errors <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/man/sphinx-build.html#id6>`__.
This means that the build stops at the first warning and exits with exit status 1.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

mkdocs
~~~~~~

Configuration for Mkdocs documentation.
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   mkdocs:
     configuration: mkdocs.yml
     fail_on_warning: false

mkdocs.configuration
````````````````````

The path to the ``mkdocs.yml`` file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Default: ``null``

If the value is ``null``,
Read the Docs will try to find a ``mkdocs.yml`` file in your project.

mkdocs.fail_on_warning
``````````````````````

`Turn warnings into errors <https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#strict>`__.
This means that the build stops at the first warning and exits with exit status 1.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

submodules
~~~~~~~~~~

VCS submodules configuration.

.. note::

   Only Git is supported at the moment.

.. note::

   You can't use ``include`` and ``exclude`` settings for submodules at the same time.

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   submodules:
     include:
        - one
        - two
     recursive: true

submodules.include
``````````````````

List of submodules to be included.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to include all submodules.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      submodules:
        include: all

submodules.exclude
``````````````````

List of submodules to be excluded.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to exclude all submodules.
   This is the same as ``include: []``.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      submodules:
        exclude: all

submodules.recursive
````````````````````

Do a recursive clone of the submodules.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

.. note::

   This is ignored if there aren't submodules to clone.

Schema
------

You can see the complete schema
`here <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/blob/master/readthedocs/rtd_tests/fixtures/spec/v2/schema.yml>`_.

Migrating from v1
-----------------

Changes
~~~~~~~

- The version setting is required. See :ref:`config-file/v2:version`.
- The default value of the :ref:`config-file/v2:formats` setting has changed to ``[]``
  and it doesn't include the values from the web interface.
- The top setting ``requirements_file`` was moved to ``python.install``
  and we don't try to find a requirements file if the option isn't present.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:Requirements file`.
- The setting ``conda.file`` was renamed to ``conda.environment``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:conda.environment`.
- The ``build.image`` setting now only has two options: ``latest`` (default) and ``stable``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`.
- The settings ``python.setup_py_install`` and ``python.pip_install`` were replaced by ``python.install``.
  And now it accepts a path to the package.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:Packages`.
- The setting ``python.use_system_site_packages`` was renamed to ``python.system_packages``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:python.system_packages`.
- The build will fail if there are invalid keys (strict mode).

.. warning::

   Some values from the web interface are no longer respected,
   please see :ref:`config-file/v2:Migrating from the web interface` if you have settings there.

New settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- :ref:`config-file/v2:sphinx`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:mkdocs`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:submodules`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:python.install`

Migrating from the web interface
--------------------------------

This should be pretty straightforward,
just go to the :guilabel:`Admin` > :guilabel:`Advanced settings`,
and find their respective setting in :ref:`here <config-file/v2:Supported settings>`.

Not all settings in the web interface are per version, but are per project.
These settings aren't supported via the configuration file.

* ``Name``
* ``Repository URL``
* ``Repository type``
* ``Language``
* ``Programming language``
* ``Project homepage``
* ``Tags``
* ``Single version``
* ``Default branch``
* ``Default version``
* ``Show versions warning``
* ``Privacy level``
* ``Analytics code``

Commit message:

Fixes #5388 -- Added Documentation for constraint while using Conda
This patch adds few notes and warnings in the configuration file documentation,
which will warn the user if he/she is using conda enviroment to setup the docs.

docs/config-file/v2.rst, after:

Configuration File V2
=====================

Read the Docs supports configuring your documentation builds with a YAML file.
:doc:`The Read the Docs file <index>` must be in the root directory of your project.

Below is an example YAML file which may require some changes for your project's configuration:

.. code:: yaml

    # .readthedocs.yml
    # Read the Docs configuration file
    # See https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config-file/v2.html for details

    # Required
    version: 2

    # Build documentation in the docs/ directory with Sphinx
    sphinx:
      configuration: docs/conf.py

    # Build documentation with MkDocs
    #mkdocs:
    #  configuration: mkdocs.yml

    # Optionally build your docs in additional formats such as PDF and ePub
    formats: all

    # Optionally set the version of Python and requirements required to build your docs
    python:
      version: 3.7
      install:
        - requirements: docs/requirements.txt


Supported settings
------------------

.. note::

   The presence of any other key that isn't documented here will make the build to fail.
   This is to avoid typos and provide feedback on invalid configurations.

version
~~~~~~~

:Required: ``true``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: 2

.. warning::

   If you don't provide the version, :doc:`v1 <v1>` will be used.

formats
~~~~~~~

Formats of the documentation to be built.

:Type: ``list``
:Options: ``htmlzip``, ``pdf``, ``epub``
:Default: ``[]``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   # Default
   formats: []

.. code-block:: yaml

   # Build PDF & ePub
   formats:
     - epub
     - pdf

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to indicate all formats.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      # Build all formats
      formats: all

.. note::

   PDF/epub/htmlzip output is not supported when using MkDocs

python
~~~~~~

Configuration of the Python environment to be used.
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   python:
      version: 3.7
      install:
         - requirements: docs/requirements.txt
         - method: pip
           path: .
           extra_requirements:
               - docs
         - method: setuptools
           path: another/package
      system_packages: true

python.version
``````````````

The Python version (this depends on :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`).

:Type: ``number``
:Default: ``3``

.. warning::

  If you are using a :ref:`Conda <config-file/v2:conda>` environment to manage
  the build, this setting will not have any effect, as the Python version is managed by Conda.

python.install
``````````````

List of installation methods of packages and requirements.
You can have several of the following methods.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

Requirements file
'''''''''''''''''

Install packages from a requirements file.

The path to the requirements file, relative to the root of the project.

:Key: ``requirements``
:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   python:
      version: 3.7
      install:
         - requirements: docs/requirements.txt
         - requirements: requirements.txt

.. warning::

  If you are using a :ref:`Conda <config-file/v2:conda>` environment to
  manage the build, this setting will not have any effect. Instead
  add the extra requirements to the ``environment`` file of Conda.

Packages
''''''''

Install the project using ``python setup.py install`` or ``pip install``.

The path to the package, relative to the root of the project.

:Key: ``path``
:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

The installation method.

:Key: ``method``
:Options: ``pip``, ``setuptools``
:Default: ``pip``

`Extra requirements`_ section to install in addition to the `package dependencies`_.

.. _Extra Requirements: https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#declaring-extras-optional-features-with-their-own-dependencies
.. _package dependencies: https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#declaring-dependencies

.. warning::

   You need to install your project with ``pip`` to use ``extra_requirements``.

:Key: ``extra_requirements``
:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   python:
      version: 3.7
      install:
         - method: pip
           path: .
           extra_requirements:
              - docs
         - method: setuptools
           path: package

With the previous settings, Read the Docs will execute the next commands:

.. prompt:: bash $

   pip install .[docs]
   python package/setup.py install

python.system_packages
``````````````````````

Give the virtual environment access to the global site-packages directory.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

Depending on the :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`,
Read the Docs includes some libraries like scipy, numpy, etc.
That you can access to them by enabling this option.
See :ref:`builds:The build environment` for more details.

.. warning::

  If you are using a :ref:`Conda <config-file/v2:conda>` environment
  to manage the build, this setting will not have any effect, since
  the virtual environment creation is managed by Conda.

conda
~~~~~

Configuration for Conda support.
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   conda:
     environment: environment.yml

conda.environment
`````````````````

The path to the Conda environment file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Required: ``true``

build
~~~~~

Configuration for the documentation build process.
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   build:
     image: latest

   python:
     version: 3.7


build.image
```````````

The Docker image used for building the docs.

:Type: ``string``
:Options: ``stable``, ``latest``
:Default: ``latest``

Each image support different Python versions and has different packages installed,
as defined here:

* `stable <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs-docker-images/tree/releases/4.x>`_: :buildpyversions:`stable`
* `latest <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs-docker-images/tree/releases/5.x>`_: :buildpyversions:`latest`

sphinx
~~~~~~

Configuration for Sphinx documentation
(this is the default documentation type).
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   sphinx:
     builder: html
     configuration: conf.py
     fail_on_warning: true

sphinx.builder
``````````````

The builder type for the Sphinx documentation.

:Type: ``string``
:Options: ``html``, ``htmldir``, ``singlehtml``
:Default: ``html``

sphinx.configuration
````````````````````

The path to the ``conf.py`` file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Default: ``null``

If the value is ``null``,
Read the Docs will try to find a ``conf.py`` file in your project.

sphinx.fail_on_warning
``````````````````````

`Turn warnings into errors <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/man/sphinx-build.html#id6>`__.
This means that the build stops at the first warning and exits with exit status 1.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

mkdocs
~~~~~~

Configuration for Mkdocs documentation.
Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   mkdocs:
     configuration: mkdocs.yml
     fail_on_warning: false

mkdocs.configuration
````````````````````

The path to the ``mkdocs.yml`` file, relative to the root of the project.

:Type: ``path``
:Default: ``null``

If the value is ``null``,
Read the Docs will try to find a ``mkdocs.yml`` file in your project.

mkdocs.fail_on_warning
``````````````````````

`Turn warnings into errors <https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#strict>`__.
This means that the build stops at the first warning and exits with exit status 1.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

submodules
~~~~~~~~~~

VCS submodules configuration.

.. note::

   Only Git is supported at the moment.

.. note::

   You can't use ``include`` and ``exclude`` settings for submodules at the same time.

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   submodules:
     include:
        - one
        - two
     recursive: true

submodules.include
``````````````````

List of submodules to be included.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to include all submodules.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      submodules:
        include: all

submodules.exclude
``````````````````

List of submodules to be excluded.

:Type: ``list``
:Default: ``[]``

.. note::

   You can use the ``all`` keyword to exclude all submodules.
   This is the same as ``include: []``.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      submodules:
        exclude: all

submodules.recursive
````````````````````

Do a recursive clone of the submodules.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``false``

.. note::

   This is ignored if there aren't submodules to clone.

Schema
------

You can see the complete schema
`here <https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/blob/master/readthedocs/rtd_tests/fixtures/spec/v2/schema.yml>`_.

Migrating from v1
-----------------

Changes
~~~~~~~

- The version setting is required. See :ref:`config-file/v2:version`.
- The default value of the :ref:`config-file/v2:formats` setting has changed to ``[]``
  and it doesn't include the values from the web interface.
- The top setting ``requirements_file`` was moved to ``python.install``
  and we don't try to find a requirements file if the option isn't present.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:Requirements file`.
- The setting ``conda.file`` was renamed to ``conda.environment``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:conda.environment`.
- The ``build.image`` setting now only has two options: ``latest`` (default) and ``stable``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:build.image`.
- The settings ``python.setup_py_install`` and ``python.pip_install`` were replaced by ``python.install``.
  And now it accepts a path to the package.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:Packages`.
- The setting ``python.use_system_site_packages`` was renamed to ``python.system_packages``.
  See :ref:`config-file/v2:python.system_packages`.
- The build will fail if there are invalid keys (strict mode).

.. warning::

   Some values from the web interface are no longer respected,
   please see :ref:`config-file/v2:Migrating from the web interface` if you have settings there.

New settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- :ref:`config-file/v2:sphinx`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:mkdocs`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:submodules`
- :ref:`config-file/v2:python.install`

Migrating from the web interface
--------------------------------

This should be pretty straightforward,
just go to the :guilabel:`Admin` > :guilabel:`Advanced settings`,
and find their respective setting in :ref:`here <config-file/v2:Supported settings>`.

Not all settings in the web interface are per version, but are per project.
These settings aren't supported via the configuration file.

* ``Name``
* ``Repository URL``
* ``Repository type``
* ``Language``
* ``Programming language``
* ``Project homepage``
* ``Tags``
* ``Single version``
* ``Default branch``
* ``Default version``
* ``Show versions warning``
* ``Privacy level``
* ``Analytics code``
