How to create reproducible builds
=================================

Your documentation depends on a number of dependencies to be built.
If your docs don't have :term:`reproducible` builds,
an update in a dependency can break your builds when least expected,
or make your docs look different from your local version.
This guide will help you to keep your builds working over time,
so that you can focus on content.

.. contents:: Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 3

Use a ``.readthedocs.yaml`` configuration file
----------------------------------------------

We recommend using a :doc:`configuration file </config-file/v2>` to manage your documentation.
Our config file *provides you per version settings*,
and *those settings live in your Git repository*.

This allows you to validate changes using :doc:`pull requests </pull-requests>`,
and ensures that all your versions can be rebuilt from a reproducible configuration.

Use a requirements file for Python dependencies
-----------------------------------------------

We recommend using a Pip :ref:`requirements file <pip:requirements-file-format>` or Conda :ref:`environment file <config-file/v2:conda.environment>` to :term:`pin <pinning>` Python dependencies.
This ensures that top-level dependencies and extensions don't change.

A configuration file with explicit dependencies looks like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: .readthedocs.yaml

   version: 2

   build:
     os: "ubuntu-22.04"
     tools:
       python: "3.11"

   # Build from the docs/ directory with Sphinx
   sphinx:
     configuration: docs/conf.py

   # Explicitly set the version of Python and its requirements
   python:
     install:
       - requirements: docs/requirements.txt

.. code-block::
   :caption: docs/requirements.txt

   # Defining the exact version will make sure things don't break
   sphinx==5.3.0
   sphinx_rtd_theme==1.1.1
   readthedocs-sphinx-search==0.1.1

.. tip::

   Remember to update your docs' dependencies from time to time to get new improvements and fixes.
   It also makes it easy to manage in case a version reaches its end of support date.

Pin your transitive dependencies
--------------------------------

Once you have :term:`pinned <pinning>` your own dependencies,
the next things to worry about are the dependencies of your dependencies.
These are called *transitive dependencies*,
and they can upgrade without warning if you do not pin these packages as well.

We recommend `pip-tools`_ to help address this problem.
It allows you to specify a ``requirements.in`` file with your top-level dependencies,
and it generates a ``requirements.txt`` file with the full set of transitive dependencies.

.. _pip-tools: https://pip-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

✅ Good:
    All your transitive dependencies are defined,
    which ensures new package releases will not break your docs.

   .. code-block::
      :caption: docs/requirements.in

      sphinx==5.3.0

   .. code-block:: yaml
      :caption: docs/requirements.txt

      #
      # This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
      # by the following command:
      #
      #    pip-compile docs.in
      #
      alabaster==0.7.12
          # via sphinx
      babel==2.11.0
          # via sphinx
      certifi==2022.12.7
          # via requests
      charset-normalizer==2.1.1
          # via requests
      docutils==0.19
          # via sphinx
      idna==3.4
          # via requests
      imagesize==1.4.1
          # via sphinx
      jinja2==3.1.2
          # via sphinx
      markupsafe==2.1.1
          # via jinja2
      packaging==22.0
          # via sphinx
      pygments==2.13.0
          # via sphinx
      pytz==2022.7
          # via babel
      requests==2.28.1
          # via sphinx
      snowballstemmer==2.2.0
          # via sphinx
      sphinx==5.3.0
          # via -r docs.in
      sphinxcontrib-applehelp==1.0.2
          # via sphinx
      sphinxcontrib-devhelp==1.0.2
          # via sphinx
      sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.0.0
          # via sphinx
      sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
          # via sphinx
      sphinxcontrib-qthelp==1.0.3
          # via sphinx
      sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==1.1.5
          # via sphinx
      urllib3==1.26.13
          # via requests

Check list ✅
-------------

If you followed this guide,
you have :term:`pinned <pinning>`:

* tool versions (Python, Node)
* top-level dependencies (Sphinx, Sphinx extensions)
* transitive dependencies (Pytz, Jinja2)

This will protect your builds from failures because of a random tool or dependency update.

You do still need to upgrade your dependencies from time to time,
but you should do that on your own schedule.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`/config-file/v2`
    Configuration file reference
   :doc:`/builds`
    Build process information
   :doc:`/build-customization`
    Customizing builds to do more
