docs/guides/build-using-too-many-resources.rst, before:

My Build is Using Too Many Resources
====================================

We limit build resources to make sure that users don't overwhelm our build systems.
If you are running into this issue,
there are a couple fixes that you might try.

.. note:: The current build limits can be found on our :doc:`/builds` page.

Reduce formats you're building
------------------------------

You can change the formats of docs that you're building with our :doc:`/config-file/index`,
see :ref:`config-file/v2:formats`.

In particular, the ``htmlzip`` takes up a decent amount of memory and time,
so disabling that format might solve your problem.

Reduce documentation build dependencies
---------------------------------------

A lot of projects reuse their requirements file for their documentation builds.
If there are extra packages that you don't need for building docs,
you can create a custom requirements file just for documentation.
This should speed up your documentation builds,
as well as reduce your memory footprint.

Use pip when possible
---------------------

If you don't need ``conda`` to create your *documentation* environment,
consider using ``pip`` instead since ``conda`` could `require too much memory`_ to calculate the dependency tree
when using multiple channels.

.. _require too much memory: https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/5003


.. tip::

   Even though your *project* environment is created with ``conda``, it may be not necessary for the *documentation* environment.
   That is, to build the documentation is probably that you need fewer Python packages than to use your library itself.
   So, in this case, you could use ``pip`` to install those fewer packages instead of creating a big environment with ``conda``.


Requests more resources
-----------------------

If you still have problems building your documentation,
we can increase build limits on a per-project basis,
sending an email to support@readthedocs.org providing a good reason why your documentation needs more resources.

Commit message:

Mention the usage of sphinx-autoapi
Let users known about sphinx-autoapi and ask them to try it out before
requesting more resources.

docs/guides/build-using-too-many-resources.rst, after:

My Build is Using Too Many Resources
====================================

We limit build resources to make sure that users don't overwhelm our build systems.
If you are running into this issue,
there are a couple fixes that you might try.

.. note:: The current build limits can be found on our :doc:`/builds` page.

Reduce formats you're building
------------------------------

You can change the formats of docs that you're building with our :doc:`/config-file/index`,
see :ref:`config-file/v2:formats`.

In particular, the ``htmlzip`` takes up a decent amount of memory and time,
so disabling that format might solve your problem.

Reduce documentation build dependencies
---------------------------------------

A lot of projects reuse their requirements file for their documentation builds.
If there are extra packages that you don't need for building docs,
you can create a custom requirements file just for documentation.
This should speed up your documentation builds,
as well as reduce your memory footprint.

Use pip when possible
---------------------

If you don't need ``conda`` to create your *documentation* environment,
consider using ``pip`` instead since ``conda`` could `require too much memory`_ to calculate the dependency tree
when using multiple channels.

.. _require too much memory: https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/5003


.. tip::

   Even though your *project* environment is created with ``conda``, it may be not necessary for the *documentation* environment.
   That is, to build the documentation is probably that you need fewer Python packages than to use your library itself.
   So, in this case, you could use ``pip`` to install those fewer packages instead of creating a big environment with ``conda``.

Document Python modules API statically
--------------------------------------

If you are installing a lot of Python dependencies just to document your Python modules API using ``sphinx.ext.autodoc``,
you can give a try to `sphinx-autoapi`_ Sphinx's extension instead which should produce the exact same output but running statically.
This could drastically reduce the memory and bandwidth required to build your docs.

.. _sphinx-autoapi: https://sphinx-autoapi.readthedocs.io/

Requests more resources
-----------------------

If you still have problems building your documentation,
we can increase build limits on a per-project basis,
sending an email to support@readthedocs.org providing a good reason why your documentation needs more resources.
