docs/guides/feature-flags.rst, before:

Feature Flags
=============

Read the Docs offers some additional flag settings which can be only be configured by the site admin.
These are optional settings and you might not need it for every project.
By default, these flags are disabled for every project.
A separate request can be made by opening an issue on our `github`_ to enable
or disable one or more of these featured flags for a particular project.

.. _github: https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org

Available Flags
---------------

``PIP_ALWAYS_UPGRADE``: :featureflags:`PIP_ALWAYS_UPGRADE`

``UPDATE_CONDA_STARTUP``: :featureflags:`UPDATE_CONDA_STARTUP`

The version of ``conda`` used in the build process could not be the latest one.
This is because we use Miniconda, which its release process is a little more slow than ``conda`` itself.
In case you prefer to use the latest ``conda`` version available, this is the flag you need.

``DONT_OVERWRITE_SPHINX_CONTEXT``: :featureflags:`DONT_OVERWRITE_SPHINX_CONTEXT`

``DONT_SHALLOW_CLONE``: :featureflags:`DONT_SHALLOW_CLONE`

The ``DONT_SHALLOW_CLONE`` flag is useful if your code accesses old commits during docs build,
e.g. python-reno release notes manager is known to do that
(error message line would probably include one of old Git commit id's).

``USE_TESTING_BUILD_IMAGE``: :featureflags:`USE_TESTING_BUILD_IMAGE`

Commit message:

Add small docs for the feature flag

docs/guides/feature-flags.rst, after:

Feature Flags
=============

Read the Docs offers some additional flag settings which can be only be configured by the site admin.
These are optional settings and you might not need it for every project.
By default, these flags are disabled for every project.
A separate request can be made by opening an issue on our `github`_ to enable
or disable one or more of these featured flags for a particular project.

.. _github: https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org

Available Flags
---------------

``PIP_ALWAYS_UPGRADE``: :featureflags:`PIP_ALWAYS_UPGRADE`

``UPDATE_CONDA_STARTUP``: :featureflags:`UPDATE_CONDA_STARTUP`

The version of ``conda`` used in the build process could not be the latest one.
This is because we use Miniconda, which its release process is a little more slow than ``conda`` itself.
In case you prefer to use the latest ``conda`` version available, this is the flag you need.

``CONDA_APPEND_CORE_REQUIREMENTS``: :featureflags:`CONDA_APPEND_CORE_REQUIREMENTS`

Makes Read the Docs to install all the requirements at once on ``conda create`` step.
This helps users to pin dependencies on conda and to improve build time.

``DONT_OVERWRITE_SPHINX_CONTEXT``: :featureflags:`DONT_OVERWRITE_SPHINX_CONTEXT`

``DONT_SHALLOW_CLONE``: :featureflags:`DONT_SHALLOW_CLONE`

The ``DONT_SHALLOW_CLONE`` flag is useful if your code accesses old commits during docs build,
e.g. python-reno release notes manager is known to do that
(error message line would probably include one of old Git commit id's).

``USE_TESTING_BUILD_IMAGE``: :featureflags:`USE_TESTING_BUILD_IMAGE`
