docs/features.rst, before:

Read the Docs features
======================

This will serve as a list of all of the features that Read the Docs currently has. Some features are important enough to have their own page in the docs, others will simply be listed here.

Github Integration
------------------

We now support linking to GitHub by default in the sidebar. It links to the page on GitHub, and directly links to the edit view as well. This should help people quickly update typos and send pull requests to contribute to project documentation. Note that users must be logged in to GitHub in order to directly jump into the edit view via the "Edit on GitHub" link, otherwise they'll be presented with an unfortunate 404 page. The user does not, however, need to be logged on to use the "Show in GitHub" link. 

If you want to integrate this into your own theme, the following variables are available in your custom templates:

* github_user - GitHub username
* github_repo - GitHub repo name
* github_version - Github blob
* conf_py_path - Path in the checkout to the docs root
* pagename - Sphinx variable representing the name of the page you're on.
* display_github

It can be used like this::

      {% if display_github %}
        <li><a href="https://github.com/{{ github_user }}/{{ github_repo }}/blob/{{ github_version }}{{ conf_py_path }}{{ pagename }}.rst">
          Show on GitHub</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://github.com/{{ github_user }}/{{ github_repo }}/edit/{{ github_version }}{{ conf_py_path }}{{ pagename }}.rst">
          Edit on GitHub</a></li>
      {% endif %}

Screenshot
~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /img/edit_on_github.png


Auto-updating
-------------

The :doc:`webhooks` page talks about the different ways you can ping RTD to let us know your project has been updated. We have official support for Github, and anywhere else we have a generic post-commit hook that allows you to POST to a URL to get your documentation built.

Heavily Cached
--------------

We run Varnish in front of RTD, so a lot of the docs you look at will be served out of memory. This is really great for the "Look up and link" that happens a lot on IRC channels. The person who looks up the link will cache the page, and the person they link it to will get it served really quickly.

We also bust caches on all documentation on the RTD domain (not CNAMEs, yet) when you build your docs, so you shouldn't have problems with stale caches.

Versions
--------

We can build multiple versions of your documentation. Look on the "Versions" page 
of your project's admin (using the nav on the left) to find a list of available versions 
that we've inferred from the tags and branches in your source control system (according to 
the support matrix below). On the Versions page you can tell us which versions you'd like us 
to build docs for, whether each should be public, protected, or private, and what the default 
version should be (we'll redirect there when someone hits your main project page, e.g., 
http://my-project.rtfd.org/).

Version Control Support Matrix
-------------------------------

+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+
|            |    Git     |    hg     |   bzr      |     svn   |
+============+============+===========+============+===========+
| Updating   |    Yes     |    Yes    |   Yes      |    Yes    |
+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+
| Tags       |    Yes     |    Yes    |   No       |    No     |
+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+
| Branches   |    Yes     |    Yes    |   Yes      |    No     |
+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+
| Default    |    master  |   default |            |    trunk  |
+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+


PDF Generation
--------------

When you build your project on RTD, we automatically build a PDF of your project's documentation. We also build them for every version that you upload, so we can host the PDFs of your latest documentation, as well as your latest stable releases as well.

Search
------

We provide full-text search across all of the pages of documentation hosted on our site. This uses the excellent Haystack project and Solr as the search backend. We hope to be integrating this into the site more fully in the future.

Alternate Domains
-----------------

We provide support for CNAMEs, subdomains, and a shorturl for your project as well. This is outlined in the :doc:`alternate_domains` section.

Intersphinx Support
-------------------

We host intersphinx catalogs for all projects built on Read the Docs. For more info on this support, read the Sphinx docs on  :mod:`Intersphinx <sphinx:sphinx.ext.intersphinx>`. Your configuration should look something like this::

    intersphinx_mapping = {
      'python': ('http://python.readthedocs.org/en/latest/', None),
      'django': ('http://django.readthedocs.org/en/latest/', None),
      'sphinx': ('http://sphinx.readthedocs.org/en/latest/', None),
        }

Then usage is pretty similar. You reference something using normal sphinx syntax, but can use the namespace of the project you want to reference, like so:

.. code-block:: rest 

    :mod:`Intersphinx <sphinx.ext.intersphinx>`
    :mod:`Intersphinx <sphinx:sphinx.ext.intersphinx>`

This will create a link to the official Sphinx documentation for intersphinx.

More information can be found on Reinout van Rees' blog: http://reinout.vanrees.org/weblog/2012/12/01/django-intersphinx.html

Commit message:

Prune "Updating" from version support matrix
Per IRC w/ @ericholscher

docs/features.rst, after:

Read the Docs features
======================

This will serve as a list of all of the features that Read the Docs currently has. Some features are important enough to have their own page in the docs, others will simply be listed here.

Github Integration
------------------

We now support linking to GitHub by default in the sidebar. It links to the page on GitHub, and directly links to the edit view as well. This should help people quickly update typos and send pull requests to contribute to project documentation. Note that users must be logged in to GitHub in order to directly jump into the edit view via the "Edit on GitHub" link, otherwise they'll be presented with an unfortunate 404 page. The user does not, however, need to be logged on to use the "Show in GitHub" link. 

If you want to integrate this into your own theme, the following variables are available in your custom templates:

* github_user - GitHub username
* github_repo - GitHub repo name
* github_version - Github blob
* conf_py_path - Path in the checkout to the docs root
* pagename - Sphinx variable representing the name of the page you're on.
* display_github

It can be used like this::

      {% if display_github %}
        <li><a href="https://github.com/{{ github_user }}/{{ github_repo }}/blob/{{ github_version }}{{ conf_py_path }}{{ pagename }}.rst">
          Show on GitHub</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://github.com/{{ github_user }}/{{ github_repo }}/edit/{{ github_version }}{{ conf_py_path }}{{ pagename }}.rst">
          Edit on GitHub</a></li>
      {% endif %}

Screenshot
~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /img/edit_on_github.png


Auto-updating
-------------

The :doc:`webhooks` page talks about the different ways you can ping RTD to let us know your project has been updated. We have official support for Github, and anywhere else we have a generic post-commit hook that allows you to POST to a URL to get your documentation built.

Heavily Cached
--------------

We run Varnish in front of RTD, so a lot of the docs you look at will be served out of memory. This is really great for the "Look up and link" that happens a lot on IRC channels. The person who looks up the link will cache the page, and the person they link it to will get it served really quickly.

We also bust caches on all documentation on the RTD domain (not CNAMEs, yet) when you build your docs, so you shouldn't have problems with stale caches.

Versions
--------

Versions are supported at the Version Control level. We support tags and branches that map to versions in RTD parlance. Not all version control systems are equally supported. We would love to accept patches from users of other VCS systems to gain equivalent features across systems.

Version Control Support Matrix
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+
|            |    Git     |    hg     |   bzr      |     svn   |
+============+============+===========+============+===========+
| Tags       |    Yes     |    Yes    |   No       |    No     |
+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+
| Branches   |    Yes     |    Yes    |   Yes      |    No     |
+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+
| Default    |    master  |   default |            |    trunk  |
+------------+------------+-----------+------------+-----------+


PDF Generation
--------------

When you build your project on RTD, we automatically build a PDF of your project's documentation. We also build them for every version that you upload, so we can host the PDFs of your latest documentation, as well as your latest stable releases as well.

Search
------

We provide full-text search across all of the pages of documentation hosted on our site. This uses the excellent Haystack project and Solr as the search backend. We hope to be integrating this into the site more fully in the future.

Alternate Domains
-----------------

We provide support for CNAMEs, subdomains, and a shorturl for your project as well. This is outlined in the :doc:`alternate_domains` section.

Intersphinx Support
-------------------

We host intersphinx catalogs for all projects built on Read the Docs. For more info on this support, read the Sphinx docs on  :mod:`Intersphinx <sphinx:sphinx.ext.intersphinx>`. Your configuration should look something like this::

    intersphinx_mapping = {
      'python': ('http://python.readthedocs.org/en/latest/', None),
      'django': ('http://django.readthedocs.org/en/latest/', None),
      'sphinx': ('http://sphinx.readthedocs.org/en/latest/', None),
        }

Then usage is pretty similar. You reference something using normal sphinx syntax, but can use the namespace of the project you want to reference, like so:

.. code-block:: rest 

    :mod:`Intersphinx <sphinx.ext.intersphinx>`
    :mod:`Intersphinx <sphinx:sphinx.ext.intersphinx>`

This will create a link to the official Sphinx documentation for intersphinx.

More information can be found on Reinout van Rees' blog: http://reinout.vanrees.org/weblog/2012/12/01/django-intersphinx.html
