docs/index.rst, before:

Welcome to Read The Docs
========================

`Read the Docs`_ hosts documentation for the open source community.
It supports Sphinx_ docs written with reStructuredText_, and can pull
from your Subversion_, Bazaar_, Git_, and Mercurial_ repositories.
The code is open source, and `available on github`_.

.. _Read the docs: http://readthedocs.org/
.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
.. _reStructuredText: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/rest.html
.. _Subversion: http://subversion.tigris.org/
.. _Bazaar: http://bazaar.canonical.com/
.. _Git: http://git-scm.com/
.. _Mercurial: http://mercurial.selenic.com/
.. _available on github: http://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org

The main documentation for the site is organized into a couple sections:

* :ref:`site-docs`
* :ref:`feature-docs`
* :ref:`about-docs`

Information about development is also available:

* :ref:`dev-docs`
* :ref:`design-docs`
* :ref:`ops-docs`

.. _site-docs:

User Documentation
------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    getting_started
    builds
    features
    support
    faq

.. _feature-docs:

Features
~~~~~~~~

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    webhooks
    badges
    alternate_domains
    localization
    vcs
    canonical
    redirects
    versions
    single_version
    privacy

.. _dev-docs:

Developer Documentation
-----------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    install
    contribute
    tests
    architecture
    symlinks
    settings
    i18n
    api
    api/index

.. _design-docs:

Designer Documentation
----------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    design
    theme

.. _about-docs:

About Read the Docs
-------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    sponsors
    talks


.. Things that need more love before getting upgraded to the above list.

.. _ops-docs:

Operations Documentation
------------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    rtfd

Commit message:

Clean up docs and add mkdocs stuff

docs/index.rst, after:

Welcome to Read The Docs
========================

`Read the Docs`_ hosts documentation for the open source community.
We support Sphinx_ docs written with reStructuredText_ and Markdown_ docs written with Mkdocs_.
We pull your code from your Subversion_, Bazaar_, Git_, and Mercurial_ repositories.
Then we build documentation and host it for you.
Think of it as *Continuous Documentation*.

The code is open source, and `available on github`_.

.. _Read the docs: http://readthedocs.org/
.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
.. _reStructuredText: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/rest.html
.. _Markdown: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax
.. _Mkdocs: http://www.mkdocs.org/
.. _Subversion: http://subversion.tigris.org/
.. _Bazaar: http://bazaar.canonical.com/
.. _Git: http://git-scm.com/
.. _Mercurial: http://mercurial.selenic.com/
.. _available on github: http://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org

The main documentation for the site is organized into a couple sections:

* :ref:`site-docs`
* :ref:`feature-docs`
* :ref:`about-docs`

Information about development is also available:

* :ref:`dev-docs`
* :ref:`design-docs`
* :ref:`ops-docs`

.. _site-docs:

User Documentation
------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    getting_started
    builds
    features
    support
    faq

.. _feature-docs:

Features
~~~~~~~~

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    webhooks
    badges
    alternate_domains
    localization
    vcs
    canonical
    redirects
    versions
    single_version
    privacy

.. _dev-docs:

Developer Documentation
-----------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    install
    contribute
    tests
    architecture
    symlinks
    settings
    i18n
    api
    api/index

.. _design-docs:

Designer Documentation
----------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    design
    theme

.. _about-docs:

About Read the Docs
-------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    sponsors
    talks


.. Things that need more love before getting upgraded to the above list.

.. _ops-docs:

Operations Documentation
------------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    rtfd
