docs/install.rst, before:

.. _installing-read-the-docs:

Installation
=============

Installing RTD is pretty simple. Here is a step by step plan on how to do it.

First, obtain Python_ and virtualenv_ if you do not already have them. Using a
virtual environment will make the installation easier, and will help to avoid
clutter in your system-wide libraries. You will also need Git_ in order to
clone the repository.


.. _Python: http://www.python.org/
.. _virtualenv: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv
.. _Git: http://git-scm.com/

Once you have these, create a virtual environment somewhere on your disk, then
activate it::

    virtualenv rtd
    cd rtd
    source bin/activate


You will need to verify that your pip version is higher than 1.5 you can do this as such::

    pip --version

If this is not the case please update your pip version before continuing::

    pip install --upgrade pip

Create a folder in here, and clone the repository::

    mkdir checkouts
    cd checkouts
    git clone https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org.git

Next, install the dependencies using ``pip`` (included with virtualenv_)::

    cd readthedocs.org
    pip install -r pip_requirements.txt

.. note::

    If you are having trouble on OS X Mavericks (or possibly other versions of
    OS X) with building ``lxml``, you probably might need to use Homebrew_
    to ``brew install libxml2``, and invoke the install with::

        CFLAGS=-I/usr/local/opt/libxml2/include/libxml2 \
        LDFLAGS=-L/usr/local/opt/libxml2/lib \
        pip install -r pip_requirements.txt

.. _Homebrew: http://brew.sh/

This may take a while, so go grab a beverage. When it's done, build your
database::

    cd readthedocs
    ./manage.py syncdb

This will prompt you to create a superuser account for Django. Do that. Then::

    ./manage.py migrate

Go ahead and load in a couple users and a test projects::

    ./manage.py loaddata test_data

.. note::

    If you do not opt to install test data, you'll need to create an account for
    API use and set ``SLUMBER_USERNAME`` and ``SLUMBER_PASSWORD`` in order for
    everything to work properly.

Finally, you're ready to start the webserver::

    ./manage.py runserver

Visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/ in your browser to see how it looks; you can use
the admin interface via http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin (logging in with the
superuser account you just created).

While the webserver is running, you can build documentation for the latest version of
a project called 'pip' with the ``update_repos`` command.  You can replace 'pip'
with the name of any added project::

   ./manage.py update_repos pip


Solr (Search) Setup
-------------------

Apache Solr is used to index and search documents.
This is an optional requirement,
and only necessary if you want to develop or use search.

Additional python requirements necessary to use Solr::

    pip install pysolr
    pip install pyquery

Fetch and unpack Solr::

    curl -O http://archive.apache.org/dist/lucene/solr/3.5.0/apache-solr-3.5.0.tgz
    tar xvzf apache-solr-3.5.0.tgz && SOLR_PATH=`pwd`/apache-solr-3.5.0/example

Generate the schema.xml file::

    ./manage.py build_solr_schema > $SOLR_PATH/solr/conf/schema.xml

Start the server::

    cd $SOLR_PATH && java -jar start.jar

Index the data::

    ./manage.py build_files # creates database objects referencing project files
    ./manage.py update_index

.. note::

    For production environments, you'll want to run Solr in a more permanent
    servelet container, such as Tomcat or Jetty. Ubuntu distributions include
    prepackaged Solr installations. Try ``aptitude install solr-tomcat`` or
    ``aptitude install solr-jetty.``

    See /etc/[solr|tomcat6|jetty] for configuration options.  The ``schema.xml``
    file must be replaced with the version built by django-haystack.


What's available
----------------

After registering with the site (or creating yourself a superuser account),
you will be able to log in and view the `dashboard <http://readthedocs.org/dashboard/>`_.

From the dashboard you can import your existing
docs provided that they are in a git or mercurial repo.


Creating new Docs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One of the goals of `readthedocs.org <http://readthedocs.org>`_ is to make it
easy for any open source developer to get high quality hosted docs with great
visibility!  We provide a simple editor and two sample pages whenever
a new project is created.  From there its up to you to fill in the gaps - we'll
build the docs, give you access to history on every revision of your files,
and we plan on adding more features in the weeks and months to come.


Importing existing docs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The other side of `readthedocs.org <http://readthedocs.org>`_ is hosting the
docs you've already built.  Simply provide us with the clone url to your repo,
we'll pull your code, extract your docs, and build them!  We make available
a post-commit webhook that can be configured to update the docs on our site
whenever you commit to your repo, effectively letting you 'set it and forget it'.


Installation with Vagrant
-------------------------

It is also possible to run RTD using Vagrant_, using Vagrant v1.1+ and the
`Salt plugin`_ for Vagrant_, by running the following commands::

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-salt
    vagrant up

The Vagrant_ virtual machine will take a while to create and provision, and
will leave a virtual machine running an instance of RTD with the following
settings:

:URL: http://localhost:8000
:Username: docs
:Password: docs

.. _Vagrant: http://www.vagrantup.com/
.. _Salt plugin: https://github.com/saltstack/salty-vagrant

.. note::

    The hostname `localhost` is used here, though it is possible to test RTD
    and subdomains by adding entries in `/etc/hosts` for `readthedocs.org` and
    your subdomains on readthedocs.org, pointing to `127.0.0.1` on the host
    system. The site will be available at http://readthedocs.org:8000 with the
    proper records set up.

The repository is shared with the host file system, so edits can be made
outside the virtual environment.

Commit message:

Installation on fresh system took me 5 days!
added missing debian packages for successfull pdf build
Please update for other distros/systems.

docs/install.rst, after:

.. _installing-read-the-docs:

Installation
=============

Installing RTD is pretty simple. Here is a step by step plan on how to do it.

First, obtain Python_ and virtualenv_ if you do not already have them. Using a
virtual environment will make the installation easier, and will help to avoid
clutter in your system-wide libraries. You will also need Git_ in order to
clone the repository and texlive-latex-base_ texlive-latex-recommended_ (debian)
packages for PDF generating.


.. _Python: http://www.python.org/
.. _virtualenv: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv
.. _Git: http://git-scm.com/

Once you have these, create a virtual environment somewhere on your disk, then
activate it::

    virtualenv rtd
    cd rtd
    source bin/activate


You will need to verify that your pip version is higher than 1.5 you can do this as such::

    pip --version

If this is not the case please update your pip version before continuing::

    pip install --upgrade pip

Create a folder in here, and clone the repository::

    mkdir checkouts
    cd checkouts
    git clone https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org.git

Next, install the dependencies using ``pip`` (included with virtualenv_)::

    cd readthedocs.org
    pip install -r pip_requirements.txt

.. note::

    If you are having trouble on OS X Mavericks (or possibly other versions of
    OS X) with building ``lxml``, you probably might need to use Homebrew_
    to ``brew install libxml2``, and invoke the install with::

        CFLAGS=-I/usr/local/opt/libxml2/include/libxml2 \
        LDFLAGS=-L/usr/local/opt/libxml2/lib \
        pip install -r pip_requirements.txt

.. _Homebrew: http://brew.sh/

This may take a while, so go grab a beverage. When it's done, build your
database::

    cd readthedocs
    ./manage.py syncdb

This will prompt you to create a superuser account for Django. Do that. Then::

    ./manage.py migrate

Go ahead and load in a couple users and a test projects::

    ./manage.py loaddata test_data

.. note::

    If you do not opt to install test data, you'll need to create an account for
    API use and set ``SLUMBER_USERNAME`` and ``SLUMBER_PASSWORD`` in order for
    everything to work properly.

Finally, you're ready to start the webserver::

    ./manage.py runserver

Visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/ in your browser to see how it looks; you can use
the admin interface via http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin (logging in with the
superuser account you just created).

While the webserver is running, you can build documentation for the latest version of
a project called 'pip' with the ``update_repos`` command.  You can replace 'pip'
with the name of any added project::

   ./manage.py update_repos pip


Solr (Search) Setup
-------------------

Apache Solr is used to index and search documents.
This is an optional requirement,
and only necessary if you want to develop or use search.

Additional python requirements necessary to use Solr::

    pip install pysolr
    pip install pyquery

Fetch and unpack Solr::

    curl -O http://archive.apache.org/dist/lucene/solr/3.5.0/apache-solr-3.5.0.tgz
    tar xvzf apache-solr-3.5.0.tgz && SOLR_PATH=`pwd`/apache-solr-3.5.0/example

Generate the schema.xml file::

    ./manage.py build_solr_schema > $SOLR_PATH/solr/conf/schema.xml

Start the server::

    cd $SOLR_PATH && java -jar start.jar

Index the data::

    ./manage.py build_files # creates database objects referencing project files
    ./manage.py update_index

.. note::

    For production environments, you'll want to run Solr in a more permanent
    servelet container, such as Tomcat or Jetty. Ubuntu distributions include
    prepackaged Solr installations. Try ``aptitude install solr-tomcat`` or
    ``aptitude install solr-jetty.``

    See /etc/[solr|tomcat6|jetty] for configuration options.  The ``schema.xml``
    file must be replaced with the version built by django-haystack.


What's available
----------------

After registering with the site (or creating yourself a superuser account),
you will be able to log in and view the `dashboard <http://readthedocs.org/dashboard/>`_.

From the dashboard you can import your existing
docs provided that they are in a git or mercurial repo.


Creating new Docs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One of the goals of `readthedocs.org <http://readthedocs.org>`_ is to make it
easy for any open source developer to get high quality hosted docs with great
visibility!  We provide a simple editor and two sample pages whenever
a new project is created.  From there its up to you to fill in the gaps - we'll
build the docs, give you access to history on every revision of your files,
and we plan on adding more features in the weeks and months to come.


Importing existing docs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The other side of `readthedocs.org <http://readthedocs.org>`_ is hosting the
docs you've already built.  Simply provide us with the clone url to your repo,
we'll pull your code, extract your docs, and build them!  We make available
a post-commit webhook that can be configured to update the docs on our site
whenever you commit to your repo, effectively letting you 'set it and forget it'.


Installation with Vagrant
-------------------------

It is also possible to run RTD using Vagrant_, using Vagrant v1.1+ and the
`Salt plugin`_ for Vagrant_, by running the following commands::

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-salt
    vagrant up

The Vagrant_ virtual machine will take a while to create and provision, and
will leave a virtual machine running an instance of RTD with the following
settings:

:URL: http://localhost:8000
:Username: docs
:Password: docs

.. _Vagrant: http://www.vagrantup.com/
.. _Salt plugin: https://github.com/saltstack/salty-vagrant

.. note::

    The hostname `localhost` is used here, though it is possible to test RTD
    and subdomains by adding entries in `/etc/hosts` for `readthedocs.org` and
    your subdomains on readthedocs.org, pointing to `127.0.0.1` on the host
    system. The site will be available at http://readthedocs.org:8000 with the
    proper records set up.

The repository is shared with the host file system, so edits can be made
outside the virtual environment.
