docs/localization.rst, before:

Localization
============

Read the Docs supports hosting your docs in multiple languages.
There are two different things that we support:

* A single project written in another language
* A project with translations into multiple languages

Single project in another language
----------------------------------

It is easy to set the *Language* of your project.
On the project *Admin* page (or Import page),
simply select your desired *Language* from the dropdown.
This will tell Read the Docs that your project is in the language.
The language will be represented in the URL for you project.

For example,
a project that is in spanish will have a default URL of ``/es/latest/`` instead of ``/en/latest/``.

Project with multiple translations
----------------------------------

This situation is a bit more complicated.
To support this,
you will have one parent project and a number of projects marked as translations of that parent.
Let's use ``phpmyadmin`` as an example.

The main ``phpmyadmin`` project is the parent for all translations.
Then you must create a project for each translation,
for example ``phpmyadmin-spanish``.
You will set the *Language* for ``phpmyadmin-spanish`` to ``Spanish``
In the parent projects *Translations* page,
you will say that ``phpmyadmin-spanish`` is a translation for your project.

This has the results of serving:

* ``phpmyadmin`` at ``http://phpmyadmin.readthedocs.org/en/latest/``
* ``phpmyadmin-spanish`` at ``http://phpmyadmin.readthedocs.org/es/latest/``

Commit message:

Add image to localization doc

docs/localization.rst, after:

Localization
============

Read the Docs supports hosting your docs in multiple languages.
There are two different things that we support:

* A single project written in another language
* A project with translations into multiple languages

Single project in another language
----------------------------------

It is easy to set the *Language* of your project.
On the project *Admin* page (or Import page),
simply select your desired *Language* from the dropdown.
This will tell Read the Docs that your project is in the language.
The language will be represented in the URL for you project.

For example,
a project that is in spanish will have a default URL of ``/es/latest/`` instead of ``/en/latest/``.

Project with multiple translations
----------------------------------

This situation is a bit more complicated.
To support this,
you will have one parent project and a number of projects marked as translations of that parent.
Let's use ``phpmyadmin`` as an example.

The main ``phpmyadmin`` project is the parent for all translations.
Then you must create a project for each translation,
for example ``phpmyadmin-spanish``.
You will set the *Language* for ``phpmyadmin-spanish`` to ``Spanish``.
In the parent projects *Translations* page,
you will say that ``phpmyadmin-spanish`` is a translation for your project.

This has the results of serving:

* ``phpmyadmin`` at ``http://phpmyadmin.readthedocs.org/en/latest/``
* ``phpmyadmin-spanish`` at ``http://phpmyadmin.readthedocs.org/es/latest/``

It also gets included in the Read the Docs flyout:

.. image:: /img/translation_bar.png
