docs/privacy.rst, before:

Privacy Levels
==============

Read the Docs supports 3 different privacy levels on 2 different objects;
Public, Private on Projects and Versions.

Understanding the Privacy Levels
--------------------------------

+------------+------------+-----------+-----------+-------------+
| Level      | Detail     | Listing   | Search    | Viewing     |
+============+============+===========+===========+=============+
| Private    | No         | No        | No        | Yes         |
+------------+------------+-----------+-----------+-------------+
| Public     | Yes        | Yes       | Yes       | Yes         |
+------------+------------+-----------+-----------+-------------+

.. note:: With a URL to view the actual documentation, even private docs are viewable.
          This is because our architecture doesn't do any logic on documentation display,
          to increase availability.

Public
~~~~~~

This is the easiest and most obvious. It is also the default.
It means that everything is available to be seen by everyone.

Private
~~~~~~~

Private objects are available only to people who have permissions to see them.
They will not display on any list view, and will 404 when you link them to others.

Commit message:

Link to Read the Docs for Business docs from relevant sections

docs/privacy.rst, after:

Privacy Levels
==============

.. note::
    For private documentation or docs from private repositories,
    use :doc:`Read the Docs for Business </commercial/index>`.

Read the Docs supports 3 different privacy levels on 2 different objects;
Public, Private on Projects and Versions.

Understanding the Privacy Levels
--------------------------------

+------------+------------+-----------+-----------+-------------+
| Level      | Detail     | Listing   | Search    | Viewing     |
+============+============+===========+===========+=============+
| Private    | No         | No        | No        | Yes         |
+------------+------------+-----------+-----------+-------------+
| Public     | Yes        | Yes       | Yes       | Yes         |
+------------+------------+-----------+-----------+-------------+

.. note:: With a URL to view the actual documentation, even private docs are viewable.
          This is because our architecture doesn't do any logic on documentation display,
          to increase availability.

Public
~~~~~~

This is the easiest and most obvious. It is also the default.
It means that everything is available to be seen by everyone.

Private
~~~~~~~

Private objects are available only to people who have permissions to see them.
They will not display on any list view, and will 404 when you link them to others.
