docs/security.rst, before:

Security
========

Security is very important to us at Read the Docs. We are committed to responsible reporting and disclosure of security issues.

Reporting a security issue
--------------------------

If you believe you've discovered a security issue at Read the Docs,
please contact us at **security@readthedocs.org** (optionally using our :ref:`security:PGP key`).
We request that you please not publicly disclose the issue until it has been addressed by us.

You can expect:

* We will respond acknowledging your email typically within one business day.
* We will follow up if and when we have confirmed the issue with a timetable for the fix.
* We will notify you when the issue is fixed.
* We will add the issue to our :ref:`security issue archive <security:Security issue archive>`.

PGP key
-------

You may use this `PGP key`__ to securely communicate with us and to verify signed messages you receive from us.

__ https://pgp.mit.edu/pks/lookup?op=vindex&search=0xFEEF9FC2DD21D271

::

    -----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
    Comment: GPGTools - http://gpgtools.org

    mQINBFqNz1ABEADvgtp3LT1pV5wuTyBPaKrbWBFj10eKyQ15wfgyc2RR6Ix5QnBo
    6BcJ4fpgBhSwlngsrm0WU5kI/jH7ySwzbDpYCRiLvGJx+pEYLuBBOSm6r5M1N+FV
    xq3ShT4mHXhwPS1mKf9Xe+KlMdYa2e5TlBEr+TxGAmFFrOLjPxw6IDHgP3MVidr2
    iHA2PAATl6H9ZYvNzLkI2sP7h0V1/ADd43YpAK4yk6gdVjype5ez8lmoxDKNabMt
    dSfdOup8zy/fbC5KlxqrT9hHBkYfQWDLWXWcDW111q+ZvncujCrpONaY86bcQ3nn
    QgkeWCwj254vvqsrygEU93reC2onWaROUKoLlX1/1m2k2X3qze/hJRFZaljXVPKH
    jV/5q88EbjSUDgY5v9mdX8jhJAukx9HkOFdkMSh3RBgu1r+UPnCNd9K4T2nN0LBL
    c9NTG0HW7Di5ivEVq74SqDIeiVeOrfY/B6pRuUm/kNPcvZ+ZQPeNk6JUMqEemO9Q
    h0VHSkgkhCPWPO9c9wWJz7O6y6vXgsFG7BZg7mTVOiKbdgneGo/rKRvuBlQ7hCvP
    PklwyRn90SJSgv7NF6HMm4TA1R9mzp+90oXjrDXARXmGTsPtcDXFv7xqpK1+Mfcn
    ajEJYdIRNWVgx0E2RzHRipdG5MIQ5Plf4/GasVHl71nMGY06oIu1T+44MQARAQAB
    tFpSZWFkIHRoZSBEb2NzIFNlY3VyaXR5IFRlYW0gKGh0dHBzOi8vcmVhZHRoZWRv
    Y3Mub3JnL3NlY3VyaXR5LykgPHNlY3VyaXR5QHJlYWR0aGVkb2NzLm9yZz6JAk4E
    EwEIADgWIQRq+P453S2vjKvMbGn+75/C3SHScQUCWo3PUAIbAwULCQgHAgYVCgkI
    CwIEFgIDAQIeAQIXgAAKCRD+75/C3SHScYMMD/4z0TN08oJ57Krg+UODXPsT9U3l
    8fyKHhe6fJCTt5GQiWwBbkfa4M0YcxemIJGdgF1DpdSteWIL0tCwXbxHph+keYlg
    z+EmF+W7OlnwbmtDx/Rj9VNdzf636DkMusTQzYEB/+FdN4LtMVq7Al4CZ2Ca82F8
    h0TLceh2bRgNjeWPuAMj7kS8tw3D9LmYA8d8Lv2c2jN7ba9p+QNKdSa4ErdJ0kbz
    CSFcABPfc+LlYWFbm5j1ggzTONgR9R27mpAGMAtgSeAtxXLU0sQfLtCNaVkRyJ3C
    s0awUvJCuq11YUPjz4HAcTWM4baAxK5LliEDOdaOlTK0q8T0sPP+SWt5JRL6/Xc3
    SwaXnVfzzZyeaSmRGEHmGQYBTB3WMUcH1RNH6uhNPCF4x3t0jOHWP7Eka4B9IdfE
    cd+GDwqTKCHyddh8yUzTrmlSbdO7iuel6WVN0Xo1xzVrLUKpgDvB0UuPQXlxDLUc
    WVrKv9rcyDVGVpDjQSQ4l191NDzlfzmDFkZ69Qe3E5Ir8oWBCMtHX3C99ocIcbR3
    3mqOio2/QQCJzrMOWxgauF/q4JMKQRj5Qq8US2U32xlPzB8O09z1e3kUOEy4gbwE
    6LVMj6vxJqjV8/4AOcocGgJKLLC9nqhf2sq5zA4TjI7lI25pgDDYozaLF2ss5nk3
    t9hQmI5Q0MXGSsflAbkCDQRajc9QARAA30mNh2QaDVLcHEfJ9QKfqRfY3ddG6s6F
    AHLR7mQ2tmO7ygzxgEcM7+7W+lmc9L+mZ5WutK5PIae/MpAgOo220079aW3em2sz
    +dIHdSE7CaajUahQaPqLY6W0bbZloGGDetPtOMKBTI1HtSNyKIsULsbyUA1SsEFn
    aWtOof1MqqVQvYDwwwRj6T+DHtV17yO33v98k01Nx1SSThVY9wQ4MOZDBOAqWhie
    iboDssrvtVZZihbQ9LM8TH/l81auodBDpp96tgWguzjM4eyutaYZ6ZOLhfVUuEX+
    gEqqJ7alXfDhh3NZUMHZ0SHVII7u7nqciTo7NS9rxBXfdGlKmC/9Z3ehIXSpCnPY
    JO42qMjPVM5/QDoeK9BWWX3rXmwnNzqK0D4L7zK/cVnt2q9EqPCUJgOITJWEGc9G
    crO0ni/8M+BuhO/4MeJJtrPtmq1b1BoeuYBzf1M7ARtnvtC5hLLrtxiy4UANlwSm
    HFcIEt5UViwEqRuQWr5ZO3mwaJP2R/foDHww7JYEqJ/GFI5RpT+3LWT5FXPC1QvU
    sbewD+ZmLSfifhC0WUzF002eadgXNyXSZKAirM8+yELM4xZAs0pJVlKVFRnis0OL
    Wxdzthp2gTg+agtMoz27belxVUEmRK9GDaXi9XtJSooSglt0xlTimgB40nDPniVB
    4h5S/gHsg8cAEQEAAYkCNgQYAQgAIBYhBGr4/jndLa+Mq8xsaf7vn8LdIdJxBQJa
    jc9QAhsMAAoJEP7vn8LdIdJxwswP/0oGlxUJZhDG8yCbTTTvxvKXd02AXw/GQKrq
    ptrLEXbhko6TOuZolEWsRrc1ObMiky97CicqQthg22Kf1K7g2UNlPS4LFtTrPXKL
    9iJMAgms0a0ul3cHqQh2XiuGc1bfDuGyNe/nE5/uvgpjxg0hvvBH/5xuiaMkf+gZ
    nJjF2ZcXm6a17MCuAcw/siox1/PeXn0At/wzOWD9qONg+BI/QUynzcSMg/coBe7V
    hUX1LU02n6laBwuQ6Q0KoD6CP43seYv3JaPyVP7+IkhtH/RDm8q3vs0qLpEBrJIb
    vBYBXLtyoGHxTkWueou0Ur1j2lLUMqnQkq5NAsckSfHtZEdPDy6T3NHMfVRmnXnW
    m/GM3BDE7DFe5BBYb+vJS4/JHNDoSpk+jNezaf3hdx9+fh2DIoL84fs1FRRAl3Od
    6LWPAt3twOQLS0KsQh0GSIZ+zdJf3xvlZ4ixAaPB4iAF8bXYzvsODN3LRQIGhet2
    NzjD41f5IrAlG/qFiC6s/YLj1DWanLw2nTzSi4x3v0Gc4DEXPebB3KvaNEmqoKGP
    5aXa9IPbvzEVCX82qjeqCPYAsYVOBQnFEAcnkrQ76363oJTeTHxK7kgewS2YCVyy
    7wVinR8eyrs+3AWrZ5Op817HgxGvAVDGOEK+1OX9g1wt+IdxX00s85/T+Zk9RF6H
    wtRaD9li
    =LjIC
    -----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

Security issue archive
----------------------

Release 2.3.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:ref:`version-2.3.0` resolves a security issue with translations on our community
hosting site that allowed users to modify the hosted path of a target project by
adding it as a translation project of their own project. A check was added to
ensure project ownership before adding the project as a translation.

In order to add a project as a translation now, users must now first be granted
ownership in the translation project.

Commit message:

Add note about security issue

docs/security.rst, after:

Security
========

Security is very important to us at Read the Docs. We are committed to responsible reporting and disclosure of security issues.

Reporting a security issue
--------------------------

If you believe you've discovered a security issue at Read the Docs,
please contact us at **security@readthedocs.org** (optionally using our :ref:`security:PGP key`).
We request that you please not publicly disclose the issue until it has been addressed by us.

You can expect:

* We will respond acknowledging your email typically within one business day.
* We will follow up if and when we have confirmed the issue with a timetable for the fix.
* We will notify you when the issue is fixed.
* We will add the issue to our :ref:`security issue archive <security:Security issue archive>`.

PGP key
-------

You may use this `PGP key`__ to securely communicate with us and to verify signed messages you receive from us.

__ https://pgp.mit.edu/pks/lookup?op=vindex&search=0xFEEF9FC2DD21D271

::

    -----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
    Comment: GPGTools - http://gpgtools.org

    mQINBFqNz1ABEADvgtp3LT1pV5wuTyBPaKrbWBFj10eKyQ15wfgyc2RR6Ix5QnBo
    6BcJ4fpgBhSwlngsrm0WU5kI/jH7ySwzbDpYCRiLvGJx+pEYLuBBOSm6r5M1N+FV
    xq3ShT4mHXhwPS1mKf9Xe+KlMdYa2e5TlBEr+TxGAmFFrOLjPxw6IDHgP3MVidr2
    iHA2PAATl6H9ZYvNzLkI2sP7h0V1/ADd43YpAK4yk6gdVjype5ez8lmoxDKNabMt
    dSfdOup8zy/fbC5KlxqrT9hHBkYfQWDLWXWcDW111q+ZvncujCrpONaY86bcQ3nn
    QgkeWCwj254vvqsrygEU93reC2onWaROUKoLlX1/1m2k2X3qze/hJRFZaljXVPKH
    jV/5q88EbjSUDgY5v9mdX8jhJAukx9HkOFdkMSh3RBgu1r+UPnCNd9K4T2nN0LBL
    c9NTG0HW7Di5ivEVq74SqDIeiVeOrfY/B6pRuUm/kNPcvZ+ZQPeNk6JUMqEemO9Q
    h0VHSkgkhCPWPO9c9wWJz7O6y6vXgsFG7BZg7mTVOiKbdgneGo/rKRvuBlQ7hCvP
    PklwyRn90SJSgv7NF6HMm4TA1R9mzp+90oXjrDXARXmGTsPtcDXFv7xqpK1+Mfcn
    ajEJYdIRNWVgx0E2RzHRipdG5MIQ5Plf4/GasVHl71nMGY06oIu1T+44MQARAQAB
    tFpSZWFkIHRoZSBEb2NzIFNlY3VyaXR5IFRlYW0gKGh0dHBzOi8vcmVhZHRoZWRv
    Y3Mub3JnL3NlY3VyaXR5LykgPHNlY3VyaXR5QHJlYWR0aGVkb2NzLm9yZz6JAk4E
    EwEIADgWIQRq+P453S2vjKvMbGn+75/C3SHScQUCWo3PUAIbAwULCQgHAgYVCgkI
    CwIEFgIDAQIeAQIXgAAKCRD+75/C3SHScYMMD/4z0TN08oJ57Krg+UODXPsT9U3l
    8fyKHhe6fJCTt5GQiWwBbkfa4M0YcxemIJGdgF1DpdSteWIL0tCwXbxHph+keYlg
    z+EmF+W7OlnwbmtDx/Rj9VNdzf636DkMusTQzYEB/+FdN4LtMVq7Al4CZ2Ca82F8
    h0TLceh2bRgNjeWPuAMj7kS8tw3D9LmYA8d8Lv2c2jN7ba9p+QNKdSa4ErdJ0kbz
    CSFcABPfc+LlYWFbm5j1ggzTONgR9R27mpAGMAtgSeAtxXLU0sQfLtCNaVkRyJ3C
    s0awUvJCuq11YUPjz4HAcTWM4baAxK5LliEDOdaOlTK0q8T0sPP+SWt5JRL6/Xc3
    SwaXnVfzzZyeaSmRGEHmGQYBTB3WMUcH1RNH6uhNPCF4x3t0jOHWP7Eka4B9IdfE
    cd+GDwqTKCHyddh8yUzTrmlSbdO7iuel6WVN0Xo1xzVrLUKpgDvB0UuPQXlxDLUc
    WVrKv9rcyDVGVpDjQSQ4l191NDzlfzmDFkZ69Qe3E5Ir8oWBCMtHX3C99ocIcbR3
    3mqOio2/QQCJzrMOWxgauF/q4JMKQRj5Qq8US2U32xlPzB8O09z1e3kUOEy4gbwE
    6LVMj6vxJqjV8/4AOcocGgJKLLC9nqhf2sq5zA4TjI7lI25pgDDYozaLF2ss5nk3
    t9hQmI5Q0MXGSsflAbkCDQRajc9QARAA30mNh2QaDVLcHEfJ9QKfqRfY3ddG6s6F
    AHLR7mQ2tmO7ygzxgEcM7+7W+lmc9L+mZ5WutK5PIae/MpAgOo220079aW3em2sz
    +dIHdSE7CaajUahQaPqLY6W0bbZloGGDetPtOMKBTI1HtSNyKIsULsbyUA1SsEFn
    aWtOof1MqqVQvYDwwwRj6T+DHtV17yO33v98k01Nx1SSThVY9wQ4MOZDBOAqWhie
    iboDssrvtVZZihbQ9LM8TH/l81auodBDpp96tgWguzjM4eyutaYZ6ZOLhfVUuEX+
    gEqqJ7alXfDhh3NZUMHZ0SHVII7u7nqciTo7NS9rxBXfdGlKmC/9Z3ehIXSpCnPY
    JO42qMjPVM5/QDoeK9BWWX3rXmwnNzqK0D4L7zK/cVnt2q9EqPCUJgOITJWEGc9G
    crO0ni/8M+BuhO/4MeJJtrPtmq1b1BoeuYBzf1M7ARtnvtC5hLLrtxiy4UANlwSm
    HFcIEt5UViwEqRuQWr5ZO3mwaJP2R/foDHww7JYEqJ/GFI5RpT+3LWT5FXPC1QvU
    sbewD+ZmLSfifhC0WUzF002eadgXNyXSZKAirM8+yELM4xZAs0pJVlKVFRnis0OL
    Wxdzthp2gTg+agtMoz27belxVUEmRK9GDaXi9XtJSooSglt0xlTimgB40nDPniVB
    4h5S/gHsg8cAEQEAAYkCNgQYAQgAIBYhBGr4/jndLa+Mq8xsaf7vn8LdIdJxBQJa
    jc9QAhsMAAoJEP7vn8LdIdJxwswP/0oGlxUJZhDG8yCbTTTvxvKXd02AXw/GQKrq
    ptrLEXbhko6TOuZolEWsRrc1ObMiky97CicqQthg22Kf1K7g2UNlPS4LFtTrPXKL
    9iJMAgms0a0ul3cHqQh2XiuGc1bfDuGyNe/nE5/uvgpjxg0hvvBH/5xuiaMkf+gZ
    nJjF2ZcXm6a17MCuAcw/siox1/PeXn0At/wzOWD9qONg+BI/QUynzcSMg/coBe7V
    hUX1LU02n6laBwuQ6Q0KoD6CP43seYv3JaPyVP7+IkhtH/RDm8q3vs0qLpEBrJIb
    vBYBXLtyoGHxTkWueou0Ur1j2lLUMqnQkq5NAsckSfHtZEdPDy6T3NHMfVRmnXnW
    m/GM3BDE7DFe5BBYb+vJS4/JHNDoSpk+jNezaf3hdx9+fh2DIoL84fs1FRRAl3Od
    6LWPAt3twOQLS0KsQh0GSIZ+zdJf3xvlZ4ixAaPB4iAF8bXYzvsODN3LRQIGhet2
    NzjD41f5IrAlG/qFiC6s/YLj1DWanLw2nTzSi4x3v0Gc4DEXPebB3KvaNEmqoKGP
    5aXa9IPbvzEVCX82qjeqCPYAsYVOBQnFEAcnkrQ76363oJTeTHxK7kgewS2YCVyy
    7wVinR8eyrs+3AWrZ5Op817HgxGvAVDGOEK+1OX9g1wt+IdxX00s85/T+Zk9RF6H
    wtRaD9li
    =LjIC
    -----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

Security issue archive
----------------------

Version 3.2.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:ref:`version-3.2.0` resolved an issue where a specially crafted request
could result in a DNS query to an arbitrary domain.

This issue was found by `Cyber Smart Defence <https://www.cybersmartdefence.com/>`_
who reported it as part of a security audit to a firm running a local installation
of Read the Docs.


Release 2.3.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:ref:`version-2.3.0` resolves a security issue with translations on our community
hosting site that allowed users to modify the hosted path of a target project by
adding it as a translation project of their own project. A check was added to
ensure project ownership before adding the project as a translation.

In order to add a project as a translation now, users must now first be granted
ownership in the translation project.
