docs/support.rst, before:

Support
=======

Usage Questions
---------------

If you have questions about how to use Read the Docs, or have an issue that
isn't related to a bug, `Stack Overflow`_ is the best place to ask.  Tag
questions with ``read-the-docs`` so other folks can find them easily.

Good questions for Stack Overflow would be:

* "What is the best way to structure the table of contents across a project?"
* "How do I structure translations inside of my project for easiest contribution from users?"
* "How do I use Sphinx to use SVG images in HTML output but PNG in PDF output?"

Community Support
-----------------

Read the Docs is supported by community contributions and advertising.
We hope to bring in enough money
with our `Gold`_ and `Ethical Ads`_ programs to keep Read the Docs sustainable.

**All people answering your questions are doing it with their own time,
so please be kind and provide as much information as possible.**

Bugs & Support Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can file bug reports on our `GitHub issue tracker`_,
and they will be addressed as soon as possible.
**Support is a volunteer effort**,
and there is no guaranteed response time.
If you need answers quickly,
you can buy commercial support below.

Reporting Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When reporting a bug,
please include as much information as possible that will help us solve this issue.
This includes:

* Project name
* URL
* Action taken
* Expected result
* Actual result

Commercial Support
------------------

We offer commercial support for Read the Docs, commercial hosting,
as well as consulting around all documentation systems.
You can contact us at hello@readthedocs.com to learn more,
or read more at https://readthedocs.com/services/#open-source-support.

.. _Stack Overflow: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/read-the-docs
.. _Github Issue Tracker: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues
.. _Gold: https://readthedocs.org/accounts/gold/
.. _Ethical Ads: https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ethical-advertising.html

Commit message:

Move community support to email
With the aim of keeping the issue tracker related to code issues,
and have a more control over specific request.
We are moving admin-only actionable request to email.

docs/support.rst, after:

Support
=======

Usage Questions
---------------

If you have questions about how to use Read the Docs, or have an issue that
isn't related to a bug, `Stack Overflow`_ is the best place to ask.  Tag
questions with ``read-the-docs`` so other folks can find them easily.

Good questions for Stack Overflow would be:

* "What is the best way to structure the table of contents across a project?"
* "How do I structure translations inside of my project for easiest contribution from users?"
* "How do I use Sphinx to use SVG images in HTML output but PNG in PDF output?"

Community Support
-----------------

Read the Docs is supported by community contributions and advertising.
We hope to bring in enough money
with our `Gold`_ and `Ethical Ads`_ programs to keep Read the Docs sustainable.

**All people answering your questions are doing it with their own time,
so please be kind and provide as much information as possible.**

Bugs & Support Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can file bug reports on our `GitHub issue tracker`_,
and they will be addressed as soon as possible.
**Support is a volunteer effort**,
and there is no guaranteed response time.
If you need answers quickly,
you can buy commercial support below.

Reporting Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When reporting a bug,
please include as much information as possible that will help us solve this issue.
This includes:

* Project name
* URL
* Action taken
* Expected result
* Actual result

Specific Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you need a specific request for your project,
like more resources or change of the project's slug.
Send an email to support@readthedocs.org.

Commercial Support
------------------

We offer commercial support for Read the Docs, commercial hosting,
as well as consulting around all documentation systems.
You can contact us at hello@readthedocs.com to learn more,
or read more at https://readthedocs.com/services/#open-source-support.

.. _Stack Overflow: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/read-the-docs
.. _Github Issue Tracker: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues
.. _Gold: https://readthedocs.org/accounts/gold/
.. _Ethical Ads: https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ethical-advertising.html
