docs/versions.rst, before:

Versions
========

Read the Docs supports multiple versions of your repository.
On the initial import,
we will create a ``latest`` version.
This will point at the default branch for your VCS control: ``master``, ``default``, or ``trunk``.

We also create a ``stable`` version,
if your project has any tagged releases.
``stable`` will be automatically kept up to date to point at your highest version.

How we envision versions working
--------------------------------

In the normal case,
the ``latest`` version will always point to the most up to date development code.
If you develop on a branch that is different than the default for your VCS,
you should set the **Default Branch** to that branch.

You should push a **tag** for each version of your project.
These tags should be numbered in a way that is consistent with `semantic versioning <http://semver.org/>`_.
This will map to your ``stable`` branch by default.

.. note::
    We in fact are parsing your tag names against the rules given by
    `PEP 440`_. This spec allows "normal" version numbers like ``1.4.2`` as
    well as pre-releases. An alpha version or a release candidate are examples
    of pre-releases and they look like this: ``2.0a1``.

    We only consider non pre-releases for the ``stable`` version of your
    documentation.

If you have documentation changes on a **long-lived branch**,
you can build those too.
This will allow you to see how the new docs will be built in this branch of the code.
Generally you won't have more than 1 active branch over a long period of time.
The main exception here would be **release branches**,
which are branches that are maintained over time for a specific release number.

.. _PEP 440: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0440/

Tags and branches
-----------------

Read the Docs supports two workflows for versioning: based on tags or branches.
If you have at least one tag,
tags will take preference over branches when selecting the stable version.

Redirects on root URLs
----------------------

When a user hits the root URL for your documentation,
for example ``http://pip.readthedocs.io/``,
they will be redirected to the **Default version**.
This defaults to **latest**,
but could also point to your latest released version.

Version warning
---------------

This is a banner that appears on the top of every page of your docs that aren't stable or latest.
This banner has a text with a link redirecting the users to the latest version of your docs.

This feature is disabled by default on new projects,
you can enable it in the admin section of your docs (:guilabel:`Admin` > :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`).

Commit message:

Document that people can create a version named stable

docs/versions.rst, after:

Versions
========

Read the Docs supports multiple versions of your repository.
On the initial import,
we will create a ``latest`` version.
This will point at the default branch for your VCS control: ``master``, ``default``, or ``trunk``.

We also create a ``stable`` version,
if your project has any tagged releases.
``stable`` will be automatically kept up to date to point at your highest version.
If you want a custom ``stable`` version,
create either a tag or branch in your project with that name.

How we envision versions working
--------------------------------

In the normal case,
the ``latest`` version will always point to the most up to date development code.
If you develop on a branch that is different than the default for your VCS,
you should set the **Default Branch** to that branch.

You should push a **tag** for each version of your project.
These tags should be numbered in a way that is consistent with `semantic versioning <http://semver.org/>`_.
This will map to your ``stable`` branch by default.

.. note::
    We in fact are parsing your tag names against the rules given by
    `PEP 440`_. This spec allows "normal" version numbers like ``1.4.2`` as
    well as pre-releases. An alpha version or a release candidate are examples
    of pre-releases and they look like this: ``2.0a1``.

    We only consider non pre-releases for the ``stable`` version of your
    documentation.

If you have documentation changes on a **long-lived branch**,
you can build those too.
This will allow you to see how the new docs will be built in this branch of the code.
Generally you won't have more than 1 active branch over a long period of time.
The main exception here would be **release branches**,
which are branches that are maintained over time for a specific release number.

.. _PEP 440: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0440/

Tags and branches
-----------------

Read the Docs supports two workflows for versioning: based on tags or branches.
If you have at least one tag,
tags will take preference over branches when selecting the stable version.

Redirects on root URLs
----------------------

When a user hits the root URL for your documentation,
for example ``http://pip.readthedocs.io/``,
they will be redirected to the **Default version**.
This defaults to **latest**,
but could also point to your latest released version.

Version warning
---------------

This is a banner that appears on the top of every page of your docs that aren't stable or latest.
This banner has a text with a link redirecting the users to the latest version of your docs.

This feature is disabled by default on new projects,
you can enable it in the admin section of your docs (:guilabel:`Admin` > :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`).
