docs/development/design/organizations.rst, before:

Organizations
=============

Currently we don't support organizations in the community site
(a way to group different projects),
we only support individual accounts.

Several integrations that we support like GitHub and Bitbucket have organizations,
where users group their repositories and manage them in groups rather than individually.

Why move organizations in the community site?
---------------------------------------------

We support organizations in the commercial site,
having no organizations in the community site makes the code maintenance difficult for Read the Docs developers.
Having organizations in the community site will make the differences between both more easy to manage.

Users from the community site can have organizations in external sites from where we import their projects
(like GitHub, Gitlab).
Currently users have all projects from different organizations in their account.
Having not a clear way to group/separate those.

There is also a product decision.
Supporting organizations only on code,
but enable the feature only on the commercial site.

How are we going to support organizations?
------------------------------------------

Currently only users can own projects.
With organizations this is going to change to: 
Users and organizations can own projects.

With this, the migration process would be straightforward for the community site.

For the commercial site we still have a decision.
Are we going to support users and organizations to own projects?
Or just organizations?

What features of organizations are we going to support?
-------------------------------------------------------

We have the following features in the commercial site that we don't have on the community site:

- Owners
- Teams
- Permissions
- Subscriptions

Owners should be included to represent owners of the current organization.

Teams, this is also handy to manage access to different projects under the same organization.

Permissions,
currently we have two type of permissions for teams: admin and read only.
Read only permissions doesn't make sense in the community site since we only support public projects/versions
(we do support private versions now, but we are planning to remove those).
So, we should only support admin permissions for teams.

Subscriptions, this is only valid for the corporate site,
since we don't charge for use in the community site.

How to migrate current projects
-------------------------------

Since we are not replacing the current implementation,
we don't need to migrate current projects from the community site nor from the corporate site.

How to migrate the organizations app
------------------------------------

The migration can be split in:

#. Remove/simplify code from the organizations app on the corporate site.
#. Isolate/separate models and code that isn't going to be moved.
#. Start by moving the models, managers, and figure out how to handle migrations.
#. Move the rest of the code as needed.
#. Activate organizations app on the community site.
#. Integrate the code from the community site to the new code.

We should start by removing unused features and dead code from the organizations in the corporate site,
and simplify existing code if possible (some of this was already done).
Another simplification that can be done is:
make the relationship between the models ``Organization`` and ``Project`` one to many
(currently many to many).

Isolate/separate the models to be moved from the ones that aren't going to be moved.
We should move the models that aren't going to me moved to another app.

- Plan
- PlanFeature
- Subscription

This app can be named *subscriptions*.
We can get around the table names and migrations by setting the explicitly the table name to ``organizations_<model>``,
and doing a fake migration.
Following suggestions in https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48860227/moving-multiple-models-from-one-django-app-to-another.
Code related to subscriptions should be moved out from the organizations app.

After that, it should be easier to move the organizations *app* (or part of it)
to the community site (and no changes to table names would be required).

We start by moving the models.

- Organization
- OrganizationOwner
- Team
- TeamInvite
- TeamMember

Migrations aren't moved, since all current migrations depend on other models that aren't
going to be moved.
In the community site we run an initial migration,
for the corporate site we run a fake migration.

For managers and querysets that depend on subscriptions,
we can use our pattern to make overridable classes (inheriting from ``SettingsOverrideObject``).

Templates, urls, views, forms, notifications, signals, tasks can be moved later
(we just need to make use of the models from the ``readthedocs.organizations`` module).

If we decide to integrate organizations in the community site,
we can enable the app.

After the app is moved,
we can move more code that depends on organizations to the community site.

Namespace
---------

Currently we use the project's slug as namespace,
in the commercial site we use the combination of ``organization.slug`` + ``project.slug`` as namespace.

For the community site probably this approach isn't the best,
since we always serve docs publicly from ``slug.readthedocs.io``.
And most of the users don't have a custom domain.

We could keep the current behavior for the community site and use ``organization.slug`` + ``project.slug`` for the corporate site,
since in the corporate site we don't care so much about a unique namespace between all users, but a unique namespace per organization.
We can refactor the way we get the namespace to be more easy to manage in both sites.

Future Changes
--------------

Changes that aren't needed immediately after the migration,
but that should be done:

Edit the current querysets, modify/add UI elements, and add new endpoints to the API (v3 only).

Commit message:

Add user interface to the design doc

docs/development/design/organizations.rst, after:

Organizations
=============

Currently we don't support organizations in the community site
(a way to group different projects),
we only support individual accounts.

Several integrations that we support like GitHub and Bitbucket have organizations,
where users group their repositories and manage them in groups rather than individually.

Why move organizations in the community site?
---------------------------------------------

We support organizations in the commercial site,
having no organizations in the community site makes the code maintenance difficult for Read the Docs developers.
Having organizations in the community site will make the differences between both more easy to manage.

Users from the community site can have organizations in external sites from where we import their projects
(like GitHub, Gitlab).
Currently users have all projects from different organizations in their account.
Having not a clear way to group/separate those.

There is also a product decision.
Supporting organizations only on code,
but enable the feature only on the commercial site.

How are we going to support organizations?
------------------------------------------

Currently only users can own projects.
With organizations this is going to change to: 
Users and organizations can own projects.

With this, the migration process would be straightforward for the community site.

For the commercial site we still have a decision.
Are we going to support users and organizations to own projects?
Or just organizations?

What features of organizations are we going to support?
-------------------------------------------------------

We have the following features in the commercial site that we don't have on the community site:

- Owners
- Teams
- Permissions
- Subscriptions

Owners should be included to represent owners of the current organization.

Teams, this is also handy to manage access to different projects under the same organization.

Permissions,
currently we have two type of permissions for teams: admin and read only.
Read only permissions doesn't make sense in the community site since we only support public projects/versions
(we do support private versions now, but we are planning to remove those).
So, we should only support admin permissions for teams.

Subscriptions, this is only valid for the corporate site,
since we don't charge for use in the community site.

How to migrate current projects
-------------------------------

Since we are not replacing the current implementation,
we don't need to migrate current projects from the community site nor from the corporate site.

How to migrate the organizations app
------------------------------------

The migration can be split in:

#. Remove/simplify code from the organizations app on the corporate site.
#. Isolate/separate models and code that isn't going to be moved.
#. Start by moving the models, managers, and figure out how to handle migrations.
#. Move the rest of the code as needed.
#. Activate organizations app on the community site.
#. Integrate the code from the community site to the new code.

We should start by removing unused features and dead code from the organizations in the corporate site,
and simplify existing code if possible (some of this was already done).
Another simplification that can be done is:
make the relationship between the models ``Organization`` and ``Project`` one to many
(currently many to many).

Isolate/separate the models to be moved from the ones that aren't going to be moved.
We should move the models that aren't going to me moved to another app.

- Plan
- PlanFeature
- Subscription

This app can be named *subscriptions*.
We can get around the table names and migrations by setting the explicitly the table name to ``organizations_<model>``,
and doing a fake migration.
Following suggestions in https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48860227/moving-multiple-models-from-one-django-app-to-another.
Code related to subscriptions should be moved out from the organizations app.

After that, it should be easier to move the organizations *app* (or part of it)
to the community site (and no changes to table names would be required).

We start by moving the models.

- Organization
- OrganizationOwner
- Team
- TeamInvite
- TeamMember

Migrations aren't moved, since all current migrations depend on other models that aren't
going to be moved.
In the community site we run an initial migration,
for the corporate site we run a fake migration.

For managers and querysets that depend on subscriptions,
we can use our pattern to make overridable classes (inheriting from ``SettingsOverrideObject``).

Templates, urls, views, forms, notifications, signals, tasks can be moved later
(we just need to make use of the models from the ``readthedocs.organizations`` module).

If we decide to integrate organizations in the community site,
we can add/move the UI elements and enable the app.

After the app is moved,
we can move more code that depends on organizations to the community site.

User interface
--------------

Import page
~~~~~~~~~~~

Project's list
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Organization's list
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Namespace
---------

Currently we use the project's slug as namespace,
in the commercial site we use the combination of ``organization.slug`` + ``project.slug`` as namespace.

For the community site probably this approach isn't the best,
since we always serve docs publicly from ``slug.readthedocs.io``.
And most of the users don't have a custom domain.

We could keep the current behavior for the community site and use ``organization.slug`` + ``project.slug`` for the corporate site,
since in the corporate site we don't care so much about a unique namespace between all users, but a unique namespace per organization.
We can refactor the way we get the namespace to be more easy to manage in both sites.

Future Changes
--------------

Changes that aren't needed immediately after the migration,
but that should be done:

Add new endpoints to the API (v3 only).
