docs/commercial/index.rst, before:

Read the Docs Commercial Features
---------------------------------

Read the Docs has a community solution for open source projects on `readthedocs.org`_
and we offer commercial documentation building and hosting on `readthedocs.com`_.
Features in this section are specific to our commercial offering.

Private repositories and private documentation
    The largest difference between the community solution and our commercial offering
    is the ability to connect to private repositories,
    to restrict documentation access to certain users,
    or to share private documentation via private hyperlinks.

Additional build resources
    Do you have a complicated build process that uses large amounts
    of CPU, memory, disk, or networking resources?
    Our commercial offering has much higher default resources
    that result in faster documentation build times
    and we can increase it further for very demanding projects.

Priority support
    We have a dedicated support team that responds to support requests during business hours.
    If you need a quick turnaround, please signup for readthedocs.com.

Advertising-free
    All commercially hosted documentation is always ad-free.

.. _readthedocs.org: https://readthedocs.org
.. _readthedocs.com: https://readthedocs.com

.. toctree:: 
   :caption: Additional commercial features

   custom_domains
   organizations
   sharing
   analytics

Commit message:

Link to Read the Docs for Business docs from relevant sections

docs/commercial/index.rst, after:

Read the Docs for Business
--------------------------

Read the Docs is our community solution for open source projects at `readthedocs.org`_
and we offer Read the Docs for Business
for building and hosting commercial documentation at `readthedocs.com`_.
Features in this section are specific to Read the Docs for Business.

Private repositories and private documentation
    The largest difference between the community solution and our commercial offering
    is the ability to connect to private repositories,
    to restrict documentation access to certain users,
    or to share private documentation via private hyperlinks.

Additional build resources
    Do you have a complicated build process that uses large amounts
    of CPU, memory, disk, or networking resources?
    Our commercial offering has much higher default resources
    that result in faster documentation build times
    and we can increase it further for very demanding projects.

Priority support
    We have a dedicated support team that responds to support requests during business hours.
    If you need a quick turnaround, please signup for readthedocs.com.

Advertising-free
    All commercially hosted documentation is always ad-free.

.. _readthedocs.org: https://readthedocs.org
.. _readthedocs.com: https://readthedocs.com

.. toctree:: 
   :caption: Additional commercial features

   custom_domains
   organizations
   sharing
   analytics
