docs/commercial/organizations.rst, before:

Organizations
-------------

Organizations allow you to segment who has access to what projects in your company.
Your company will be represented as an Organization,
let's use ACME Corporation as our example.

ACME has a few people inside their organization,
some who need full access and some who just need access to one project.

Member Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* **Owners** -- Get full access to both view and edit the Organization and all Projects
* **Members** -- Get access to a subset of the Organization projects
* **Teams** -- Where you give members access to a set of projects.

The best way to think about this relationship is:

*Owners* will create *Teams* to assign permissions to all *Members*.

Team Types
~~~~~~~~~~

You can create two types of Teams:

* **Admins** -- These teams have full access to administer the projects in the team. They are allowed to change all of the settings, set notifications, and perform any action under the **Admin** tab.
* **Read Only** -- These teams are only able to read and search inside the documents.

Example
~~~~~~~

ACME would set up *Owners* of their organization,
for example Frank Roadrunner would be an owner.
He has full access to the organization and all projects.

Wile E. Coyote is a contractor,
and will just have access to the new project Road Builder.

Roadrunner would set up a *Team* called *Contractors*.
That team would have *Read Only* access to the *Road Builder* project.
Then he would add *Wile E. Coyote* to the team.
This would give him access to just this one project inside the organization.

Commit message:

Link to Read the Docs for Business docs from relevant sections

docs/commercial/organizations.rst, after:

Organizations
-------------

.. note::
    This feature only exists on `Read the Docs for Business <https://readthedocs.com/>`_.

Organizations allow you to segment who has access to what projects in your company.
Your company will be represented as an Organization,
let's use ACME Corporation as our example.

ACME has a few people inside their organization,
some who need full access and some who just need access to one project.

Member Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* **Owners** -- Get full access to both view and edit the Organization and all Projects
* **Members** -- Get access to a subset of the Organization projects
* **Teams** -- Where you give members access to a set of projects.

The best way to think about this relationship is:

*Owners* will create *Teams* to assign permissions to all *Members*.

Team Types
~~~~~~~~~~

You can create two types of Teams:

* **Admins** -- These teams have full access to administer the projects in the team. They are allowed to change all of the settings, set notifications, and perform any action under the **Admin** tab.
* **Read Only** -- These teams are only able to read and search inside the documents.

Example
~~~~~~~

ACME would set up *Owners* of their organization,
for example Frank Roadrunner would be an owner.
He has full access to the organization and all projects.

Wile E. Coyote is a contractor,
and will just have access to the new project Road Builder.

Roadrunner would set up a *Team* called *Contractors*.
That team would have *Read Only* access to the *Road Builder* project.
Then he would add *Wile E. Coyote* to the team.
This would give him access to just this one project inside the organization.
